the
[Applause]
athletic the race is on and it's a case
of new year new hope as we can all start
looking forward to another F1 season one
that will hopefully produce a more
dramatic world championship fight I'm
edw and joining me to pose the big
questions of 2024 and even have a go at
answering them are Scott Mitchell Mal
and Glenn Freeman Scott welome happy New
Year how are your celebrations yeah
happy New Year happy to be here and
recording definitely in 2024 at the very
start of the New Year how about those
lottery numbers last night who would
have thought that the number 20 would
come up four times in the same lottery
draw that that's that was astonishing
excellent so did you win well I didn't
but unfortunately I didn't have that
advanced knowledge that it would have
been really really useful to have picked
all of those numbers on my ticket but
I'm thought maybe someone else will cash
in instead it's a it's a very specific
choice for your generic uh New Year
celebrations Reflections I had a very
generic vague New Year it certainly
happened and I'm certainly uh feeling
the after effects of it Glenn how about
you well I don't know why you two are
trying to be so funny and vague I had an
early night on the 31st so we could
record this at the crack of dawn on New
Year's Day absolutely in the middle of
the night pretty much from the uh from
the release time so yeah just in case
anyone's wondering it's definitely not
December when we're recording this we
definitely not got ahead and we're
definitely not currently probably asleep
for those of you who are listening into
this sharp hang on hang on there's
there's no way Scott and I are going to
be asleep when this comes out no exactly
you might be um you know completely free
to just live your life as you please Ed
but unfortunately we've chosen to ruin
our yeah well probably should be clear
we mean by having children yeah I've got
no child care responsibilities
fortunately that'll definitely be paying
me off on uh on New Year's Day and
that's why you were on the town last
night Ed celebrating New Year well as is
my style of course as as is well known
I'm famous for it so yeah that's why
we're possibly getting ahead but I still
think our our salutations of happy New
Year are legitimate to all our listeners
thanks for joining us for another year
on the race F1 podcast and we are on
this podcast going to look ahead to the
2024 F1 season seems the appropriate
time to do it we're going to tackle some
of the big questions now we won't have
comprehensive answers to these questions
but we can explain why they're important
and get our take based on the somewhat
limited information we've got so far so
first up question one Scott will Red
Bull's dominance continue I really
really really hope that the answer to
this is either no or yes but they but
it'll be really hard fought I i' I can't
express anything other than hope for
that at the moment I certainly don't
have the
expectation that it won't continue
because one of the advantages that Red
Bull had because of the the the size of
the the the Performance Edge that it
that it had early in 2023 but also the
various problems that all of its Rivals
had is that it wasn't Under Pressure to
develop hard in the first part of 2023
or even through 2023 and then therefore
take away precious resource and time
from from its 2024 work which was
obviously from October 22 to October 23
much more of a pressing issue for Red
Bull in light of the penalty that they
got for breaking the budget cap back in
2021 with the further restrictions on
what they could do with the wind tunnel
and with the CF D testing allowances
that they have so they almost got a
little bit of a free pass from their
Rivals with that with that penalty and
it just meant that well it's it's would
be wrong to say that the rb9 was
untouched through 2023 we we we saw
quite a few a few upgrades but they just
there wasn't the emphasis on improving
that car and it allowed them to get
ahead effectively on the 2024 car so I
don't see why rb20 would be compromised
in any way I think rb20 will be
Evolution and a very good Evolution on
on rb19 and
unfortunately that sets quite an ominous
Benchmark for rll's Rivals yeah you
always have to look for reasons why
things might change and as it steady
state the trends are that Red Bull can
just continue on its Serene trajectory
with its car concept and get some more
performance out of it While others are
having to change their direction there's
no reason in any of that to expect
things to change for Red Bull so perhaps
Glenn you can try and find either some
reason we haven't thought of or perhaps
give a slightly water down version of
the question which is Will Red Bull's
dominance be at least lessened it should
be lessened um I nearly said this year
but of course it's now 2024 uh 2023
should be an anomaly in that it was Red
Bull adding more layers of perfection to
the best um first attempt at these new
rules that we had in 2022 whilst its two
best what should have been its two best
place rivals Mercedes and Ferrari were
still getting it wrong so you had these
great leaps from Aston Martin and
McLaren but they were coming from so far
back that you couldn't expect any more
of them so the onus was on the other uh
two members of The Big Three and they
dropped the ball so as we come on to
later you've got to hope that they
finally make some progress but I've
there's an interesting you talked about
it being steady state Ed and I think
that's really interesting because over
this this winter I've I've come to a
realization that Max for
stappen uh three years of winning the
World Championship so far remind me of
the start of Michael schumaker's
dominance with Ferrari so the first year
is an epic title fight with kind of that
driver's defining rival so we had vapen
versus Hamilton for that read Schumaker
versus hackin and in 2000 then you had
uh Max's second title was you you know
the Red Bull was the best car and he did
the best job and they got it wrapped up
early but there was a bit of a challenge
that was schumacker in 2001 with kind of
Williams and McLaren were snapping at
Ferrari's heels sometimes then you had
2002 Ferrari and schumacker obliterated
everyone 2023 for stappen and Red Bull
obliterated everyone the difference is
that steady state phrase because in
2002 F1 and that really means Bernie Eon
panicked and he he he forced through he
got the faia to make loads of rule
changes in conjunction with Max Mosley
that they came together Max's attitude
was more always kind of if you're doing
the best job you deserve to win Bernie's
attitude was this is a show this is a
business this is a TV product we've got
to do something this time Stephano DEA
car who's in that role has held his
nerve he is backing the other teams to
close the gap without having to
interfere and he's been quite clear
hasn't he I would say over the last you
could probably say 12 months he doesn't
want F1 to intervene so we're going to
see if that pays off for him he's I he's
gambling from the point of view of
f1's priorities are that this is a
successful business and TV ratings have
gone down for the last two years so it
is a Gamble and it's it'll be very
interesting to see if it pays off for
him I thought you were tearing up a
prediction of a classic 2003 Star season
there but you undercut it with your
damned facts about the past bring back
V10 on I was going to say who's going to
play the role of the wins One race but
somehow takes the title to the to the
deci and how much of an achievement
would that be in a 24 Race season it
would take some going wouldn't it
especially with an old car given that
everybody's old cars last year were a
bit rubbish yeah exactly I think one of
the things that and this actually this
leads leads on from that steady state
point that that Ed made because one of
the things that I felt was a bit
disingenuous at the end of last year
when Christian her spoke was um he
talked about 2021 and what happened to
Mercedes being no guarantee of the
dominance continuing because obviously
Mercedes absolutely ran away with it in
2020 and then Lewis lost the the title
to the stappen in 2021 and we had a
absolute ding-dong fight from race one
to to the final round that wasn't steady
state there's a massive difference
between what happened between 2020 and
2021 and what's happening between now uh
between 2023 and 2024 and that
difference is that there aren't a set of
regulations basically designed to to
screw the dominant team over because
that is a that was a massive factor in
2021 we had that quartet of small but
significant changes which basically
moved uh I wouldn't say moved the
advantage away from but it hurt cars
like and I say cars like basically only
the Mercedes and the racing point which
then became the Aston Martin and
massively favored the high rate cars so
all of a sudden yes there had been
progress at the end of 2020 and Red Bull
had ended 2020 in a better position that
also hasn't happened now they they
aren't under like they aren't losing
races now but they were also then given
massive assistance with a significant if
small set of rule changes and that just
isn't happening this year so it's a it's
a very significant it's a very
significant difference don't don't get
Hoodwinked by any quotes you see saying
oh well we've seen it in the past when
nothing
changes why should anything change so
you we really are putting the emphasis
on the rivals having more to find than
Red Bull tripping up over something or
something holding them back if people
would like a glimmer of hope there is
one in so far as it's not necessarily
the case that Red Bull has hit upon
everything that's right and virtuous
about these regulations there might be
some untapped concept that some other
team can hit on I feel like it's quite
unlikely with how tight the RS are but
it's always possible because we know and
we'll get on to this in a minute other
teams are changing their Concepts and
approach so there's a a possibility of
that I'd be quite surprised but it's
always a relative game isn't it and just
because Red Bull have had the best car
for the first two years of this reg
doesn't necessarily mean it is the best
possible car and there's always some way
to go so that's the that's the hope and
that's what the other teams will be
using to drive themselves on and on
which note Glenn let's talk about one of
those teams this big question is can
Mercedes get its car concept
right well um I it's got to be better
than the last two years um because I
think they've come they have they did
come to that realization that the the
the the route they were going down on
their own was was wrong I remember
saying to somebody about this time last
year what we need is the Mercedes
arrives in 2023 testing with Big Red
Bull style side pods on it and is's
Rapid in testing and then we'll have a
great season it came out with no side
pods was still rubbish was still
bouncing leis Hamilton still hated it
and they were you know they paid the
price for that all year my concern
although they should go back in the
right direction my concern is you are
asking them to get this version of the
car right at the first attempt and I
find that unlikely so I think it'll be
better but are we going to see them make
you know are they going to produce kind
of what we saw McLaren do the back half
of last year maybe where they on certain
tracks and on its day the Mercedes can
be up there snapping at a Red Bull's
heels I think that's about the best they
can hope for James Allison has come back
but he's had a limited amount of time
kind of pulling the strings again and F1
car
performance is It's Kind it's an oil
tanker it takes a long time to turn
things around you can't just click your
fingers anymore and go ah we were doing
it wrong we know what we should have
been doing we fixed it we're back at it
um again McLaren is kind of your hope
there but they were coming from such a
low base uh whereas
Mercedes that you know they still they
still finished second in the
championship uh it was just that they
never looked like winning a Race So that
was the concern I think they can be in
the mix I I don't see I I don't have
enough faith in that I'm unfortunately
under this rule set yet to believe that
they're suddenly going to come out with
a a Red Bull beater or a Red Bull
matcher they should at least be able to
be in the right direction I would expect
now people for the first time in this
rule set well that's the thing people
say change exactly well people will say
hang on a minute we were talking about
this going into last year and they had
the same concept they didn't get it
right but there were some differences I
oh this is going to be difficult in
terms of time streams I've written a
piece which at the moment I'm speaking
has not yet run but almost certainly
will have run by the time you hear this
that was based on a James Allison
interview and he basically said their
big mistake was that they thought
thought that their car even at the end
of 2022 their car concept with the
bouncing and purposing problem not
necessarily eliminated but dramatically
mitigated by the rule changes was enough
and they they ignored a lot of the
feedback that drivers were giving them
because they thought the first order
problem was all of the bouncing and
pping but there were other problems
beyond that and it took this Following
season for them to learn that so the
Monaco change was was a big shift to
change what they could within the
limitations of the architecture of the
car now next year's car will have a a
different rear suspension different
gearbox to go with that different monoco
shape they'll probably move around the
the side impact protection so there's
some pretty big architectural changes so
when it comes to this question there's a
good chance they will get the car
concept right but as you said Glenn
that's not necessarily enough so I feel
like unless Mercedes does something
absolutely remarkable
the answer to this question could be
well yes it will but it won't be enough
this isn't meant to be a an uncharitable
question or misleading or anything like
that but it it's and it's probably
sounds quite naive but is there a
difference between them getting the car
concept right and not getting it
wrong uh I think we need a vend diagram
for this that's tricky well ultimately
well well you could you could say are
you are you saying that getting the car
concept right means getting it right and
getting somewhere near maximizing it
whereas not getting at wrong means being
in the right direction but not all the
way there is that the distinction yeah
kind of yeah I mean if they take the
side pods off again they really have got
it wrong although they will tell you
that the side pods weren't a significant
factor even later uh on in the
development of that car but that's by
the by that's not gone to those it's
funny how they're not on the car anymore
isn't it well they they say that that
took performance off the car when they
did it but I think the thing is they got
a little bit hung up on these because
people were saying they were the first
order problem the side pods which they
weren't but the side pod shape and
concept follows what you're doing with
the underfloor and again the fact that
they were standing alone and they've
moved off it I think probably says
something yeah they were getting lots of
things wrong that just happened to be
the most visible difference so we all of
clung to it and perhaps a very trivial
one in fact but I think we will see
normal side pods or something
approaching that anyway as we saw for a
lot of this year the reason I sort of
framed that question is that you know
that difference between getting it right
and not getting it wrong is that I I I
feel I'm very confident Mercedes won't
get it entirely wrong I don't I don't
think they're going to turn up with
something that looks so dramatically
different and then Falls at the first
hurdle again but it really does depend
on what you mean by get get that car
concept right and I think because of
this team's
previous um track record and the
ambition and expectation of the team get
its car concept right has to mean
fighting Red Bull and this time 12
months ago I was happy probably in this
same podcast and certainly in other
podcasts that we did before the start of
the season and stuff I'd written saying
that yeah why why shouldn't I believe
that Mercedes will get it right because
that organization is fantastic it's had
amazing success it has also succeeded
across different rule sets so it wasn't
just it lucked into one really long
cycle of rules or or anything like that
they were talking really positively and
optimistically they did seem to have got
to got a really good understanding of
where things had gone wrong but but then
they went ahead and got it wrong again
in a different way but and I understand
I appreciate what Ed was saying there
and and James Allison's explanation for
it I I I I get that there are reasons
2023 went wrong and and it sounds like
very well understood reasons why 2023
got wrong but what happened across 22
and then into 23 does Dent my confidence
that they can eradicate all of those
problems at the first go in 2024 you
don't want to get duped again do you
your your faith was sh
last year I I think I think what what
you guys have said is right that you can
get the car if they get the car concept
right as in they make the first step but
it's and it's the first of many steps
that's not enough for them you look at
the the rhetoric around Mercedes from
the very top from Toto wolf throughout
last year really but particularly at the
end of last year constantly banging on
but not shying away from it but almost
overdoing what a failure Mercedes have
been so far and that's created a bit of
backlash where people are saying come on
this is a bit much like you still
finished second in the championship and
you're talking like you know you've been
down the back battling with those uh
with a Williams or a saber or something
like that but that's because of what you
guys said that for Merced Mercedes
exists to be fighting for wins and
championships and second in 20123 more
than in any other year for a long time I
think second place really was first of
the losers the Mercedes
never I know we had the odd race where
you could have gone oh did Mercedes mess
up their strategy could they have fought
a bit harder for the win there they were
never really in the hump for a win they
never turned up to a weekend where you
could even say they had the equal
fastest car so for them that is that is
total failure yeah and there's a test
for the team there in terms of how well
has it really responded to that whole
process James Allison has also talked
about there being a bit of I think
fragmentation was the way he
characterized it within team that when
they were trying to recover they all
kind of redoubled their efforts but
almost you ended up focusing so much on
your own little world in the part
exactly it was a really good exactly
yeah it wasn't sort of connected up and
that's been tackled but the really
interesting thing is that if they do get
the car concept right let's let's say
all the fundamentals there the direction
is right then it becomes a pure game of
development it's how quickly can you get
that arot tracker line going up compared
to your opposition and then it's the
question of do you properly do you
properly understand the kind of
aggregate of the characteristics you
need to get because these cars are all
about getting performance through a
range of ride heights and there's all
sorts of tradeoffs there that you have
to apply so it's a big test even if you
get the fundamentals right there is a
question about do you really understand
how to how to absolutely optimize this
that's a big test for Mercedes and a
very interesting one I think a good
season for them would be right sort of
concept decent development path probably
a few wins would be you if they did that
you think that that's all right that's a
decent season good step and if they were
to do more than that and be a genuine
title threat you'd say I mean that's
that's pretty impressive certainly
possible but would require a big step
and if they were to be in the wilderness
again and lost that would be very very
serious because you could kind of
connect what happened last year to the
year before cuz they hadn't quite
realize the full extent of it but they
know how wrong last year's car was they
know the direction they need to go and
if if they've gone off in a completely
different direction that isn't right or
not understood really the core things
they're trying to achieve and it's very
easy to create kind of a car that's a
similar Crum of what it should be in
that it looks like exactly you've got
all the same things but you don't really
understand the the formula that's
generating that you've got your result
but because you don't understand the
word it's not really doing that and
there's a lot of secret so it's a big
challenge I think Mercedes Mercedes you
have to
say should be given a fair amount of
credit they're a very capable team very
good facilities very good people but
it's a big test isn't it particularly
when you're going up against Red
Bull well let's move on now to Ferrari
Scott is verer Ferrari on the path to
Glory I think it's on a good path um
it's certainly it's on the path to
something yeah sure it's definitely it's
not on the path to Oblivion but is it
not on the path to Glory I want I want
to see the map it's walking definitely
for I don't know if it's a prancing
horse at the moment but it's definitely
it's not limping as badly as it seemed
to be at the end of 2022 is it trotting
but I so that's a good way yeah I think
so it's trotting along will it but will
it break out into I don't know I guess a
prance is an upgrade on a trot it
depends what you're trying to achieve I
suppose um
wi I think um I I quite liked what I saw
from Fred's Ferrari in the second half
of of 2023 there was still still a few
signs of the old uh the old weaknesses
remaining reliability a couple of um
imperfectly run races and and that kind
of thing but one I liked the way Ferrari
went about its 2023 in terms of solving
some problems I like the fact that they
made actual technical progress with the
car because I do think that has been a
real weakness of that team in in recent
years and they've brought stuff that
just hasn't worked in the way that they
wanted it to or or needed it to I quite
like the way Fred does seem to be quite
neatly immune to one of the worst things
about Ferrari which is just the insane
levels of speculation and and that kind
of stuff like he has just so little
interesed in it he's so he's always got
disdain for speculation and media
reporting and basically us so I think
he's actually quite a good barrier to
that
and more perhaps just as importantly he
he is getting the best out of char lir
and he's making lir buy into that
project again so these are a bunch of
really good sort of broader foundational
elements to to the organization the big
question is with the significant changes
we're expecting from that car this year
similar to Mercedes is Ferrari going to
strike the right balance the same this
the same question with Mercedes are all
those ingredients going to come together
and is the changing car concept and Fred
absolutely hates that word as well
actually going to result in a title
Challenger it I think that is actually
now the big unknown whereas what I
probably would have said 12 months ago
is that Ferrari has quite a lot of other
stuff that they need to do better and
get on top of and I'm seeing signs of of
that happening under theur and with the
changes that have sort of been
implemented Tech on the technical side
just in terms of sheer outright
technical
Firepower I think we're at least a year
away from Ferrari being right at the top
and being on that path to to Glory
because they've got people people
joining but they're still not going to
be at full strength for probably another
year yeah I don't think I don't think
they can produce a title Challenger this
year because I don't think anybody's
going to I think the best we can hope
for and we should stress this is because
we want this is looking at as a neutral
we don't have favorites um or
unfavorites we just want we want more
teams fighting for the wins we want the
wins shared around I still expect Red
Bull to end up with commanding
Championship
victories but I want to see these two
teams in particular Ferrari and Mercedes
finally get it together I so I don't
think Ferrari can win a championship
next year or fight for one but I I do I
kind of feel
like Scott did about Mercedes a year ago
where I've I've got the faith and and
it's based on kind of the last third of
the 2023 season just from monser onwards
and I might have just been getting duped
by everything they were saying but I
just felt like you could have more faith
in what they were saying than you could
in the first part of the year and I I
really like Fred I I dealt with him in
the junior ranks over a decade ago
really now um and I was surprised and
disappointed at the beginning where
things weren't going well because he
inherited a bit of a mess and he just
kind of took the uh took the route of no
just say it's all fine or yep don't
worry we know what we're doing and there
were a few times where it looked like he
was trying too hard to tow the party
line I thought this isn't very Fred and
if this is what Ferrari's done to him
then I don't think it's going to work
but he grew into his shoes his Marinello
fitted shoes and he he came across with
a lot more conviction as the year went
on the whole team did and it was backed
up by what felt like tangible change on
track as well not only did they seem to
make the car better but being able to to
bring the car back into a window where
lir could get the best out of it I think
that's significant so much of what we
said about Red Bull is the fact that Red
Bull does a great job of making sure
it's a car that Max for stappen as its
best fastest driver can get the most out
of it I think as great as Carlos science
is and as good a job as he does there
Ferrari's Ferrari's absolute Peaks are
going to come from the car with a number
16 on it so the fact that they were able
to start to turn that around before the
end of last year gives me some Faith as
well so yeah this is probably the most
upbeat I've felt about Ferrari for quite
a few years one of the things I found
with verer across 2023 because I I I
understand where that kind of hesitance
comes from Glenn in terms of that all
the a little bit of doubt about what
Fred's Ferrari actually looks like and
you don't really think it looks like
very much in the first few months of of
23 is that there was there I think there
was an awful lot of feeling out the
situation and just making sure he had
time to to to work a few things out
because the first half of the Year Fred
was at his best when he was talking in a
broader sense when he was sort of
looking at when he was talking about
culture when he was talking about
um the performance potential of of the
car and and seeing what they could
maximize from it over the course of the
year and and and that kind of stuff it
there was a lot in the first few months
of last year there were very few
specific details about we've got this
specific thing wrong these are the
things we're going to do to address it
we've got this specific problem at the
factory and this is what we're going to
do to address it he he I think as early
as which was the second round he was
already starting to open up a little bit
more about the things that weren't going
right but there did seem it definitely
came across as a little bit of
resistance to sort of publicly talking
about issues and how we'd fix them but I
think in an F1 context that's kind of
been V's strategy in general he doesn't
do a lot of talking he prefers to
actually just do stuff behind the scenes
and I think he's always been that way
yeah and and the second half of the year
the way that played out that's again
kind of repeating myself a little bit
and also a bit of what you said but
that's what gives me the confidence
because it's like okay Fred just did
stuff and it actually made an impact and
he he even got to Abu Dhabi and he was
saying like that doesn't really mean
have changed much or anything you know
he knows that it wasn't a one year
that's it fixed everything it's still a
team in transition and there's a lot
there's a lot of work that does need to
be done there still
but he just seems to have put together a
project that is actually internally and
also by the sounds of it us externally
actually do buy into and think that
there is something here that is more
detailed beyond the N this will be all
right the car's quick it will sort
itself out the next one Glenn Could
Oscar piastri rest control of McLaren I
should stress from Lando Norris as
driver rather than assuring Andreas
Stellar or something a you've you've
robbed me of my chance to be a smart ass
there
um I'm sure you'll find a way I'll I'll
bin my answer then about what I think of
his capabilities as team boss um let's
talk about the driver lineup I don't
think he should and that's more because
I think if Norris is as good as
everybody including a lot of us say he
is then piastri shouldn't be able to do
that not certainly not in year two I
think he'll be P will be better I think
he needs to he needs to show that he's
learned something about managing race
pace and managing tires and and that
sort of
thing it's going to be really
interesting and I do think he's going to
push Norris really hard and that's going
to be good for Norris because it'd be
very easy if you stay in the same team
for a long time and you've always got
the measure of your teammates and it's
not a team that is out and out fighting
for wins and championships you might
just get a little bit comfortable so I
think it's probably very well timed for
Lando to have a teammate like this I
think he should be up to the challenge
and I think they they're going to be a
phenomenal pairing this year so if the
car's good they are both going to be
causing a lot of problems for the teams
that we've been talking about already I
think the the interesting thing here is
that it could be one of those ones Scott
couldn't it that there isn't necessarily
any Victor in this everyone always
thinks One driver wins one driver loses
but we know how good Norris is and we've
seen how good piastri already is but
could be so I guess that's the
fascinating Dynamic isn't it yes I think
that's part of it but I think there is a
second part of this question which is
Will Norris want to stay at McLaren and
I think that is a key question that gets
resolved in 20124 it might get resolved
very very early it might get resolved
towards the end it might spill into 25
but 24 will be the foundation of the
resolution because
2023 was absolutely critical for McLaren
just realigning itself with Norris's own
trajectory there there was a problem
developing there which was that just as
McLaren was starting to fade and looked
less convincing than at any point during
Norris's career that it would get to the
front in Formula 1 Norris was very very
clearly ready to fight at the front in
Formula 1 Norris is under under contract
until the end of
2025 but his desire to leave would only
have grown his frustration would only
have grown had 2023 carried on the way
it started in those first eight races or
so which were really really frustrating
frustrating and and tough to put up with
so if we take it at face value what
Norris has said what Zack Brown has said
Andreas Stellar has said that
relationship is really strong and
probably a lot stronger than it had any
right to be in the first couple of
months of 23 so Norris and McLaren are
on a path again towards another renewal
and a longer term contract but if
McLaren takes a step back again in 2024
if piastri does particularly well and
puts Norris Under Pressure if something
changes elsewhere like Daniel Ricardo
has a mega Target Alpha to Yuki Coda
continues to be someone Red Bull's got
no interest in and Sergio Perez is for
the exit door at Red Bull Racing in
after 24 Red Bull will make another
effort to sign Norris and at that point
Norris might be moved to think actually
has have I given McLaren all of the time
and patience and everything that I need
to give them and if any situation like
that emerges whether Norris is
definitely for the exit door possibly
for the exit door having his head turned
whatever that's where pastri can come in
and rest control as well because why
would McLaren put everything behind
Norris if they think there is a good or
even decent chance of losing him at the
end of 25 when piastri is signed up for
26 is in in a different phase of his
career and not to say that Norris is
dislaw in any way but the the
ingredients for pastry's loyalty to
continue they're kind of already there
whereas McLaren needs to do a little bit
more convincing to keep Norris on board
longer term this is a conversation for
another podcast but very quickly I I
don't understand the the Norris Red Bull
links and the the Red Bull the in I know
they've spoken well about him I don't
understand why he's the sort of driver
they'd look for unless they don't think
Max is long for for F1 if they if they
think ma is going to go then you get
Lando in early and he's kind of there
and you put up with maybe having two
drivers who are a bit too equal for
their liking if they think Max is going
to stick around for a long time I just
think they're going to want to find
another number two and want a more
reliable number two than Perez but
that's a discussion for another time I
wanted to pick up on something we said
earlier that you don't always have to
have a loser in a teammate battle in
this McLaren battle I think piastri
won't lose uh as long as he makes some
progress so if if Lando still beats
pastre but pastre is better that's good
everyone looks good everyone's happy if
pastri beats Norris or gets ahead of
Norris then I do think Norris loses I
think his his reputation that has only
climbed during his time in F1 will face
its first dip and then there will be
questions and actually then maybe he
would be ideal for Red Bull as a number
two if they decide that he's not quite
at the level of his current McLaren
teammate so I think there is some risk
for Norris but I suspect that that it
will just sharpen him up and and make
him deliver consistently at a high level
there's also a need for him to show that
some of the problems he had in the Final
Phase of 2023 were more car related than
driver related because there were too
many qualifying mistakes he he admitted
it he was very harsh on himself and
maybe overly harsh on some occasions but
perfectly reasonably harsh on on others
he needs to he needs to tidy that up and
the the progress that McLaren makes of
its car could go a long way to resolving
that because if the car is clearly a
more consistent compliant machine in
qualifying much less so in the race it's
it's in qualifying when it's on a knife
edge that the problems arise piastri
because that's where he absolutely
excelled in his rookie season was
qualifying piastri will expose any
lingering Norris weakness if that car
isn't the problem anymore let's say it
was the main factor towards the end of
23 with Norris's rate of mistakes
piastri H is is good enough and fast
enough to show when Norris isn't getting
the most out of a consistently good car
so I think there is also a little bit of
pressure there for Norris to just just
just tidy up that L if he's got any
rough edges it's those qualifying
mistakes they might not be his fault but
we'll hopefully find out in 24 whether
he's got on top of the stuff that he's
contributing to and the more competitive
the McLaren is the more intense that
battle between those two will be so
could be a really really exciting
storyline if the McLaren is able to
fight for race wins on a regular
basis let's move on now to question five
Scott is Aston Martin the real deal yeah
this is a very very important year for
for for Aston Martin as a whole there
was the big step obviously for the start
of 2023 which was less it I I think I
said this quite a few times at the start
of the year and then through the season
it was actually it was less of a
shocking step as perhaps the outright
results made it look because they that
team had actually ended 22 in a better
position it looked in the championship
and in terms of I guess if you're
looking at it a bit more casually
because actually by the end of 2022 it
was quite regularly sniping for points
it was probably the it probably had the
the fifth fastest car but it didn't look
like that it was in in Championship
sense I think it was seventh and it had
only sort of progressed into seventh so
it it wasn't like a blockbuster oh yeah
this didn't look on the surface like
this is a team ready to make a massive
lead they walked through an open door as
well didn't they left by Mercedes and
Ferrari exactly so what you had was a
team that was actually really by the end
of 22 probably the fifth best team in F1
or the fifth best car then at the start
of 23 two and well three of the teams
ahead of it dropped the ball in some way
one because it's Alpine and two because
Ferrari and Mercedes just didn't do as
competitive a job so there was an
opportunity there a bit of lwh hanging
fruit for Aston Martin to make a a very
good step but not a totally
transformative dramatic one but the
results were transformative and dramatic
then it's not going to have the
opportunity to do that again for 24 or
it shouldn't unless the answers to the
questions we've asked before this are uh
can Mercedes get his car concept right
absolutely not is Vil's Ferrari on the
path to Glory absolutely not could
pastri rest control of McLaren no
because it's going to implode that's the
only way that Aston makes another
massive step from season end to to
season start but what's important I
think for this year is to show something
that I think you and I have talked about
quite a lot Ed and I know that you've
sort of arrowed in on this as something
to prove is whether or not that
technical structure and and what they do
can create Good original ideas that it
then develops through the season because
it's kind of one thing to have almost
cherry-picked a few of the best ideas
elsewhere and then done your best
initial go at at consolidating all of
that and improving it in your own way
but I'm a little bit worried by the lack
of progress that they made relative to
rivals in in in 23 and Ed I'm I'm
forgetting how you often phrase it but
that feels like the biggest question
mark for me it's that kind of original
ideas and actually showing the flexing
the technical muscles so to speak yeah
they've got to show they can self-
sustain their progression with their own
development work their own ideas their
own concept drives Etc and it's that
this is the test of what the team can do
which is why I think the 24 car is a a
huge huge test and actually I think it's
it's the toughest question on this list
that we're talking about today to
actually come up with an answer to
because we haven't yet seen the evidence
the evidence will be in the 24 Aston
Martin we can't really predict because
that could be a car that's right up
there or it could be a car that
regresses further and is and is messing
around fighting for sort of back half of
the grid if things go wrong it's a
different side of the same coin with the
other teams with the other teams we
asking them to prove to us that they do
are finally understand what they've done
wrong and where they need to go with
Aston Martin we're asking him to prove
that they do understand where to take
what they did in 2023 so there's still a
level of we're not certain that they
know exactly what the next steps are
it's kind of okay you did a really good
job to get to this point do you know why
you got there and do you know where the
direction is from here so it's it's this
it's you can bundle it into the same
question about do you really understand
what's going on here it just so happens
that unlike the other big teams Aston
Martin at least got to this stage before
they did the one thing that did
encourage me about their 2023 the second
half of the season was the way they kind
of unpicked the problems that they'd
almost meandered into in the second half
of the year and okay the the the Brazil
qualifying result and race result was
bit of an outlier compared to the races
that followed but it was a bit more
convincingly the fifth best team again
in this the end at the end of the year I
mean obviously alfat and Alpine had had
their moments but it just felt like
Aston Martin had I I feared that it was
on a trajectory that had it fading out
of that even points by the end of the
year like a real reverse of the 2022
trajectory that was what was concerning
me but it did feel like they started to
unpick that quite effectively and when
you consider that one of their targets
was to to to undo some of the negative
characteristics that caught Lance stroll
out in particular and strolls form over
those final races while not stunning and
still too weak in qualifying apart from
in Brazil it was better it was a lot
more like what we saw in the first few
races of the Year ironically when Lance
was at his weakest physically um and
that sort of again suggested okay well
you had a you had a spec specific goal
with the car here and you seem to have
achieved it because strolls form changed
quite dramatically so
a bit of encouragement from that and and
then obviously just another part of the
subsection of the question entirely is
what happens with the drivers because I
don't think there is any doubt after 23
that Alonzo is still in a more than good
enough position to lead a team like this
and to deliver when the results are
there that the jury is very much still
out on on on on on Lance I think there's
I think there's just about enough
evidence for you to say that he he could
do he could do some good results like
he's he's done enough he's done enough
sort of solid work with a few flashes
here and there to know that if that car
is to his liking and is very competitive
stroll is not going to be absolutely
nowhere he's not going to be getting
knocked out in q1 in a car that is you
know top five on the grid week in week
out or anything like that he's clearly
not a hopeless Grand Prix driver but
he's not on Alonzo's level and is he
really good enough if Aston Martin
proves it is the real deal and is in a
position to to fight for second third or
fourth in the championship is stro going
to be there supporting Alonzo and making
a legitimate proper contribution to that
that again I I think there's a there's a
big question mark against it yeah and I
think again Aston Martin is the team
that has probably the widest range of
possible outcomes in terms of its
competitiveness this year which is makes
it what makes it so interesting the hope
is that it is strong because again
that's a team that has good quality
people they've invested in a lot of the
right places so the ingredients should
be there
it's really a question of whether it
Ceres properly and fully it's done it's
done some of that as was shown last year
but whether last year was a good
intermediate step to better things in
which case it was a good year or whether
it was uh a bit of a a oneoff caused by
Confluence of circumstances and they
regress in which case in which case last
year was a bad year is the big question
so yeah lots to unravel about Aston
Martin and it's going to take the car on
track for to do
that let's move on to our final set of
questions now we're kind of working our
way down the grid a bit Glenn is there
any point in Alpine the most
disrespectful of the questions on here
but perhaps not with not without good
reason given it's uh static form of the
past half decade or so yeah I could just
say no and then we'll move on and save
ourselves some time um but I would like
to explain slightly why this is beyond
the team's flatlining performance or
somewhat flatlining performance and I
think that since this team became
Alpine nobody as far as I can tell from
like the engagement we can see from our
audience nobody cares about this team as
Alpine nobody knows what Alpine is um we
spent the first six months uh having
fans telling us that we were wrong for
not saying Alpine um so that there's
nothing there's nothing there for people
to care about so if the team stays in
the
Midfield people people don't don't want
to read about it they don't want to
watch videos about it they probably
won't listen to a a full podcast about
the team the team even though you it's
very easy to forget this is still a
Works F1 team and when it was called
Renault that's that's a big name with um
wider Automotive recognition but also
massive F1 history Alpine it just sounds
like a sponsor to most people so I get
what probably why they did it was it was
a way of keeping the Renault group in F1
and oh we'll use it to promote this new
this well I was going to say new brand
Alpine's been around for decades this
brand that we want to reinvigorate but
it has created a situation coupled with
um their
performances and with a a driver lineup
that's solid but unspectacular it has
made them a bit Anonymous in the middle
of the grid and like I say that's for
more reasons than purely just
performance the the the logic behind the
the the Alpine Rebrand gave the team
really really nice like basement level
of what would be a success in Formula 1
because a brand like Renault doesn't get
that much out of being the fifth sixth
best team in in Formula 1 but a nothing
brand like Alpine still gets enormous
marketing benefits just by being in F1
so almost just just by existing and
giving the team that platform or giving
the brand that platform has value that
Renault just doesn't get in in in the
same way that that was great because
that was a that was a really sensible as
you as you alluded to Glenn almost like
future proofing of the Renault group's
participation in Formula 1 because they
would get so much more out of it in a
relative sense by having Alpine there
the problem is that seems to have just
translated entirely into renault's
attitude towards the team's performance
which is just well we're here and we're
getting something out of just being here
so why would we put more money in why
would we put the right effort in why
would we have the priorities in the
right order to actually make us success
of this team and I think we've said it
quite a few times now that organization
now as Alpine I don't I didn't feel this
way about it when it was still Renault
but that organization right now is a
marketing exercise with a racing team
attached to it it's not the other way
around and I sort of asked Alonzo about
this at the end of the 2023 season and
said there's got to be very different at
Aston Martin because that is very much
you know there's a huge marketing
element around that huge commercial
element you know really really leaning
on the the brand and um businesso
business relationships with various
partners and stuff like this but there's
not so so there's this whole potential
commercial circus around Aston Martin
but it's a racing team at heart it's a
it's a it's a team it's a program with
serious ambition and a fairly logical
intended path to to get that Alpine and
Renault don't don't have that at all so
you ask is there any point in the team
yes there is from a comp commercial
sense but competitively from a
performance level less of a point than
ever and it it frustrates me because
there are really good people within that
organization and end stones are uh got a
fantastic trap record across multiple
iterations and I'm sure that the people
at viry that do the engine that they're
obviously not no hopers there's loads of
loads of effort and talent and ideas
there but you just have an organization
behind it that just doesn't to me and I
think actually Pat fry might have said
something like this at the end of 23 as
he's now gone to to Williams from aling
there's no motivation no desire or push
from from the owner really to be
anything more than the fourth or best
fifth best team in Formula One because
well they get everything they need to
out of F1 by being at that level so why
would why aim higher why make it harder
for yourself why make it more expensive
that and it's not just us asking if
there's any point it's kind of feels
like Renault is asking that is there any
point in being any anything more than
Alpine ultimately as we talked about
before the ownership has has often been
a question mark when it comes to run no
owned F1 teams the engine projects
generally have done pretty well when
they've certainly when they've been
Standalone obviously the Turbo Hybrid
era hasn't been brilliant necessarily
for for Renault and that's been going on
a while now so perhaps you could say in
more recent years that's questionable as
well but yeah it just comes down to is
that team being given the best
opportunity cuz one of the things that
Pat fry said when he was talking about
why he left he said that he didn't
really feel that otar saf now have been
given much of a chance to uh to take
things on and and his Focus was firmly
on the ownership in terms of that not
giving the impression that it had the
genuine ambition to move better than
fourth and then of course last year they
finished six and not just six but Alpine
was so profoundly six so they weren't in
that battle at the back with the four
teams they weren't anywhere near the top
five they were just this very very very
no man's Landy kind of sixs and that's
that's pretty poor and while there were
some what I'd call very gentle positives
after the change they had midseason they
slightly up their yield in terms of
points per race and that kind of thing
there were some gently positive things
about the way the team was operating
Trackside and uh Bruno faman the interim
team boss who incidentally seems like he
might be becoming less of an interim
team boss and might be there for a while
in terms of running the team said that
he he felt the the the upgrade that they
rushed through for Las Vegas to make it
more competitive there than it was in
Monza was a big tangible benefit of
pushing on and being a bit more
aggressive but these are all you know
that they're they sort of tentative
green shoots rather than signs of
overwhelming progress so that that's the
thing I want to see something something
more convincing than just sort of these
little ups and downs bobbing in the
Midfield one they they're fourth one
year they're sixth one year they're
fifth it all amounts to much the same
thing it's just not really going
anywhere even though a lot of the
ingredients are there one of the things
I would just to really sort of summarize
the issue that I have with it is uh
backto back effectively press releases
from the organization in mid December
one came the day before the other first
you had an announcement that David bivio
was finally leaving and there I can
guarantee there has to be some people
listening to this podcast now that had
no idea bivio was still there
after his slightly curious but left
field and kind of brilliant in a way
switch from the world of Moto GP um
Anonymous threeyear stint sidelined
after 12 months but really he'd been
sidelined much earlier than that and the
man that was hired to be the head of
track side operations effectively or the
track side leader as the racing director
ended up being in this absolutely
nebulous um racing expansion Project's
role that sort of put him in charge of
the Alpine Academy but he wasn't really
it was it was n
and so they announced fair you know it
wasn't totally perfunctory as a as a
statement but they announced his
departure the next morning there's this
big press release about cinin Bloody
zadan welcoming Alpine in Madrid and
posing for photos because he's an Alpine
Ambassador for go for absolute for I
they're very very proud of it and
they're very excited about it but as far
as I can tell I I don't see how I don't
see why a serious F1 team or operation
need needs that affiliation so there's
lots of photos he poses with the drivers
he poses with alpine Academy members he
poses next to Alpine cars and stuff like
this and does takes them on a tour and
they play a little game of football and
that kind of it's all very nice but it's
pure Rena group it's pure Alpine F1 in
that it's all Style no substance and
that to me that ju to position really
good person who you got nowhere near
getting the most out of has left the
next day big song and dance about this
pointless big money big name Ambassador
showcasing that like that's their
priority and that that's why I just have
whatever faith I have on the endstone
side really good people in the
organization ver side whatever that is
that attitude is what we'll keep holding
that back and I think we will see that
again 2024 might be one of the years
where they have a nice little upward
tick in their trajectory but they won't
go any further than being probably the
fourth best team and they'll probably
come tumbling down fairly soon after you
mentioned Ed I think that um they were a
No Man's Land sixth that's last in class
for a team like this you know in 2023
the four teams behind were in their own
mini battle to not be last so if if
you're if you're a team as big as as Al
I need called them Renault if you're a
team as big as Alpine is if you are
renault's Works team and you're Sixth
and those are the only teams you're
beating you're last in class so that's
about year I wouldn't even say they
lasting class cuz I think they fell out
of that class they're a drift of the
class yeah they're in their own little B
Class there's an a class and a cclass
and there's just the Alpine class on its
own hey winning a class of one is still
a win well that's true there'll be
plenty of poth hunters in Motorsport who
will tell you that but although although
there was a brief spell of races when
Aston Martin kind of dropped into the
Alpine battle it was yeah very lonely
season for uh for LP I hope there's
reasons to be more positive that for the
for this team than we see than we're
saying here I really do but yeah they
need to show something and I think we
touched on the the areas that that are
holding it back and it's not necessarily
the actual nuts and bolts of the team as
such let's move on now to our seventh
question Scott will Saba be any less
pointless slight variation questions are
getting more and more brutal aren't they
you can tell Ed just like lost Ed just
he he started this podcast being the one
that was look being the glass half full
look at 2024 but it feel was like at
some when this podcast outline was being
drafted Ed was just like running out of
enthusiasm for 2024 already or question
eight he's going to resign or maybe it's
just as a little bit of a giveaway to
the fact that we might not be recording
this in the in the early minutes of 2024
maybe the maybe 2023 had just started to
take its toll a little bit too much on
Ed as he got down to the um the the the
tuggers of the of the group I I feel I
deny that allegation strongly Scott what
just happened is I i' got further into
the New Year's Eve rivalries while
writing obviously took a little bit of
time and yeah the questions just
gradually got a bit more Larry so this
is the question that you write at about
quarter to midnight in a weather spoon
I'm not sure it's quite that
desperate um anyway right so speaking of
desperate let's talk about salba um
obviously it's um it's no longer the
faux manufacture that was Alpha Romeo um
and it's in this kind of holding phase
now before it becomes Audi in 2026 it
honestly this is going to be a bit of a
treading water for a year or two and I'm
sure the team will say that's not the
case and and to a degree it won't be
behind the scenes there's going to be
really really important work going on to
get ready for 26 on track there's going
to be really important work there as
well because they need to start showing
improvements and actually making
progress there's been a little bit of
noise about recognizing that they
ultimately had they were one of the
teams that got the concept wrong and had
to re address that quite substantially
in the form of a brand new car for 2024
rather than you know evolve it through
the year and then try to kick on so
potentially that there is scope here for
a reasonable step straight out the
blocks in 2024 because a lot of the car
I suspect will change but based on based
on its recent track record based on the
fact that it's still in that kind of
transitional phase to become Audi's
Works team and even though elements of
the facilities are are fantastic there
still a fairly small organization and
James Keys arrived obviously he had
issues in terms of trying to make
McLaren what exactly what s was trying
to become and and lost his job there
he's been the second half of 23 and
started to get his feet under the table
but it just feels it feels like it's at
least a year too soon to start to see
what this organization might become so I
don't have hugely high hopes for it I'm
fascinated to see how Audi feels about
what you described there is going to be
a very difficult very odd potentially
Anonymous couple years before this team
becomes fullon Audi are they willing to
write it off on track because they're
doing they believe they're doing all the
right things off track or does there
come a point particularly within
boardrooms and that sort of thing where
if it's going really wrong if sa becomes
rooted to the bottom of the championship
because those teams it's battling with
get their act together will there be
people going well what have we bought
here what are we buying into we've
bought this team and it's getting
progressively worse since we bought it
will that then mean that there's Audi
pressure to get a bit more involved
unofficially to turn things around
before they come in in 2026 I have very
little faith in saber at the moment
unfortunately because they looked good
at the start of this rule set because
they had what the only car that was out
or close to the weight limit and really
as far as as far as really matters it's
just been a gradual decline since then
as everyone else has got their act
together and very very little by the way
of real shoots of progress so I'm just
I'm fascinated about how Ali's going to
feel about that because 2026 is still a
very long way away the I guess the glass
half full way of looking at that is that
um Audi's if it's if its team gradually
gets worse in this period Then Audi is
going to look Mega if it comes in into
2026 and even and even sets it up as the
fourth or fifth team cuz it's going to
look like an absolute it'll be the anti-
Mercedes the opposite of Mercedes where
you buy a title winning team and
suddenly turn it into what like the
fourth or fifth team in Formula One at
the the first attempt I have a suspicion
that Saba won't get that bad and I have
a suspicion I also don't think Ali will
do that good a job straight away yeah I
was about to say I'm not 100% convinced
they'll be that's why I think it's
important the 24 is at least the start
of seeing some progress because I think
whatever you see in 26 even though
you'll have the new engine and you will
have a new rule set a new new set of car
rules to try and put all of the the the
the fruits of the labor of the last few
years into effect for a brand new set of
regulations it's an opportunity to make
a big leap I think this is the
foundation right and I don't it it has
to get to a good level but it won't get
to that level this year that that's my
concern and ultimately with its dri
lineup what why would you expect
anything spectacular I mean Val botas
will probably have a few really nice
headline grabbing Saturdays and the odd
great conversion of that into decent
points on
Sundays and that's about as good as it
will get from the drivers or am I being
too harsh Ed given that this is
obviously salber is a team that you have
a soft spot for well I think you know we
botas did produce some strong weekends
last year sometimes on fairly hopeless
ones for the team so it didn't show
through that well he can be a little bit
erratic Joe in a quick enough cut car
can be a solid Point scorer so yeah it's
not a stunning lineup but it it it could
have some decent uh decent Peaks but
what I want to see from that team is
just an improvement from what they did
last year because it just wasn't enough
it was very erratic last year and
they're not anywhere near maximizing the
potential of the team that they are
right now so that's the two things they
need to do they need to you know expand
the team get more people and improve the
facilities Etc but they also need to get
better at maximizing the performance
potential they do have because those two
things together are what will turn that
team into the race wining operation Audi
wants it to be down the line let's move
on to our final one now Glenn we're
moving into the world of the driver
Market can Williams keep Alex alurn I'm
glad your questions have calmed down and
it's not just um what's the point of
Williams
um but I don't I don't think I have good
news for them I think if uh if Albin
reproduces what we saw from him in
2023 I think he's going to outgrow
Williams and yes Williams is hopefully
going in the right direction James vs
seems to be doing a really good job and
has got Grand plans
but the way I look at it is can Alex
alurn afford to wait for those grand
plans to come to fruition probably not
and I don't think he should if the right
offer comes along what he has done to
his reputation is phenomenal to going
into Williams absolutely brilliant job I
don't necessarily think that's going to
get him a top top race winning car you
know they're not I don't think those
teams are going to be fighting over him
but better Midfield teams might be and
there's always you always get the odd
unexpected vacancy when the driver
Market's a bit volatile and I hope the
driver Market is more interesting than
it was this winter when nothing happened
so I just think he will have better
offers and as much as we all love
loyalty
this is a ruthless Sport and if Williams
felt they could get do better than Alex
alurn they would replace him so if he
can do better than Williams I think he
should go somewhere else and I like I
say I I just think that the timeline
isn't going to quite line up so I can't
sit here and say that he should
definitely ride the wave with Williams
because I think that that that progress
is going to be slow well and also he's
got to be aware of the passage of time
doesn't he in terms of he's not an old
driver
exactly exactly but he's he's sort of
entering F1 middle age now so this next
move he makes it could be actually the
biggest move he makes in terms of the
financial uh package he gets it could be
with he's going to be in a strong enough
position in the dri Market probably
particularly if he moves to an upward
mobile team ra upwardly mobile team
rather than one that's established at
the front it could be a good long-term
contract as well so he needs both to
maximize his earning potential and his
opportunity here because Williams's
recovery it's going to take quite a long
time he'll be able to
be he'll be able to form a firm judgment
on it because he's on the inside so
he'll have a fair idea of how long it
could take Williams to get up there so
he will know whether it's worth
considering staying there but he will
also have to do what is best for his own
career ultimately he's given Williams as
of now two extremely good years he will
probably have given them three extremely
good years by the end of the current
contract so yeah he he will have a high
market value and obviously Scott is all
part of what could be a quite volatile
Market couldn't it for 25 there's
potential for there to be lots of
changes and Alburn will be one of the
central players in it I can see him for
quite a few months being linked to all
sorts of opportunities while other chess
pieces are being moved around yeah it
kind of um one of the things I've
actually really enjoyed hearing from
Alon at times over the last sort of 12
months or so is just how honest and
blunt he has been about his age and like
he s said like everyone calls me young
and I know but I'm not in an F1 driver
sense so he's not I don't think he's in
a I'll give you a comparison botas and
Perez could conceivably have done their
last proper deals in in Formula 1 they
might have another deal in them but they
neither of them have a lucrative deal
left in in their locker I think they can
extend their careers but they don't have
a big one I think a driver like Carlos
SS and maybe albon's in the same bracket
or a little bit of a slightly different
one but once you get a driver that's
sort of coming to the end of their 20s
and signs I think has a couple of years
on on Alum SS I feel like is looking at
his his last big contract like that's
what I think SS wants to do I think
ideally he'd do that with Ferrari now
and get a three or fouryear deal Bank of
cash take him into his early 30s and
then decide what to do from there he
he's looking for something like that
alurn I think is trying to put himself
in a position to get the first of those
big deals if that makes sense the the
one that puts him back into much more of
a prominent position in um in Formula 1
he's already reestablished himself as a
relevant and important player in the
driver Market but in terms of the chance
to get bigger results the chance to get
a bigger payday that's what the next
deal is about and then there should be
one after that as well so this is a
really important phase of of Alban's
career and how that ties in with the
others your you know your your your
career fading slightly older drivers
like a Perez or or or a bot ass a signs
who's in a similar kind of situation but
also trying to throw his weight around
the potential retirement of big guns
like Hamilton and and Alonzo there's an
awful this is a very it's a very
threedimensional driving Market Market
which is the complete opposite as Glenn
said of one where for the first time in
history we're going to start a season
with exactly the same Driver Line as we
ended it I would be I would be I would
be stunned in 12 if in 12 months time we
are looking ahead to the same grid yet
again yeah I don't think that'll be the
case for reference Alban turns 28 in
March and science are you comparing him
to is 18 months older so anent the pair
of them exactly exactly but it is F1
middle age and it's a short career and
it's your job as a drive to make the
most of it especially as Alban hasn't
exactly been raking it in for the past
few years with uh with Williams he's
making a decent living certainly by
normal standards but yeah he's not
setting himself up for life yet let's
put it that way and he needs to with the
next one and given he's been so close to
F1 Oblivion when he was on the scrap
Heap as Red Bull Reserve he knows how
important it is to make the most of that
well hopefully we've managed to address
the big questions going into the season
it's very very hard to give any
definitive answers but the next 12
months will answer them all we will know
absolutely everything come this time
next year so that's something to look
forward to and of course the race F1
podcast will be with you every step of
the way so thanks very much to Scott and
Glenn for your Insight head to the
race.com don't forget the hyphen plenty
to read there on the world of F1 check
out our other podcasts including bring
back v10s hosted by Glenn Freeman of
course the new series of that starts on
January the 4th with an episode all
about the 1989 Japanese Grand Prix the
infamous clash between Alan Prost and
Aon Center also there's the race F1 Tech
show starring Gary Anderson on Moto GP
indicar and Formula E podcasts as well
and also take a look at our YouTube
channel both long and short form videos
there we're very much looking forward to
enjoying this year with you so happy New
Year and stay with us for everything you
need to know from the world of Formula 1
[Applause]
the athletic