well hey everyone this is shirish and
welcome back to my channel but today I'm
back with another one of the amazing
universities University of Maryland at
College Park or U Maryland okay so I
have something very interesting to share
with you I have created an amazing
Profile assessment and it is completely
free to use yes just head to the link
mentioned in the description box and get
your profile evaluated for free on what
kind of universities you can get into it
is the most comprehensive profile
evaluation that my team has created and
it includes a lot of different factors
and gives you extraordinary insights
into what steps you must take to build
your profile to get admission to your
dream University well it's really the
most informative profile assessments
available anywhere all you need to do is
take out 10 minutes fill the objective
type questionnaire and your results will
be emailed to you in no time make sure
to check your spam folder as well and
enjoy your personal assessment and
action steps on how to get admission to
your dream College admission
and if you need any help after that my
team and I are always there to help you
with your entire College admission
Journey because I'm not just a YouTuber
I'm an entrepreneur helping thousands of
students every year from past 12 years
so yes we have the best knowledge and
strategies for you but not for this
video I have received a ton of requests
to review this University so let's hit
it up for University of Maryland at
College Park
[Music]
hi I'm sharesh Gupta and I Empower
people to hack their success rise above
the challenges and confidently create an
extraordinary life they deserve
University of Maryland is a public land
ground research University in College
Park Maryland it was founded in 1856 in
the University system of Maryland it is
classified among R1 which is doctoral
universities which means very high
research activities and is labeled as
public IV yes denoting the quality of
Education comparable to private IV
University of Maryland is part of Big
Ten Conference for intercollegit
Aesthetics and is a big deal in division
1 Sports within the group itself
the main campus is located in College
Park a city in Maryland it is
approximately four miles from the
Northeast border of Washington DC it is
a Suburban location and has much more to
offer on top of its proximity to
Washington DC you will find enough
activities for yourself to keep you busy
all throughout the year merrylands 1340
acre College Park campus Embraces an
array of architectural styles that
include the Georgian brick building with
the Oak Lane mall at the heart of the
campus the university is improving every
year on the front of making the campus a
more sustainable and environment
friendly the Irby Center for computer
science featuring six floors of
specialized high-tech labs and the Saint
John teaching and learning center are
among the recent additions to the
Maryland campus all colleges at the
campus are equipped with
state-of-the-art facilities the most
popular majors at University of Maryland
include biological sciences economics
mechanical engineering Finance
criminology and criminal justice
computer science business and journalism
well although I'm not a big fan of
judging the university solely on the
basis of the ranking but University of
Maryland is consistently placed into top
100 National ranked universities as well
as globally have some of its amazing
courses all right now let's move on to
our next section talking about the right
fit starting with academic fit
well academics at University of Maryland
are amazing Maryland's coursework is
intense but more collaborative than
competitive its 12 colleges offer about
200 degree granting programs including
90 to undergraduate 107 Masters program
or about 83 doctoral programs and also
students are allowed to combine
established Majors to create their own
design programs which is awesome
Maryland has earned a strong reputation
for its engineering and computer science
programs as well as the Smith School of
Business and Middle College of
Journalism the psychology and biological
sciences programs have gained a lot of
reputation in recent years as well
Maryland's location comes with a ton of
opportunities its proximity to the
national capital has resulted in many
defense research projects available on
campus funded by none other than NASA
Homeland Security National Institute of
Health the UMD fire which is first year
Innovation research experience program
allows qualified freshmen to join
faculty-led research groups for research
and mentorship experiences a lot of
researchers available for graduate
students as well internship
opportunities nearby DC area in
Baltimore are available in plenty and a
two-day orientation seminars and course
clusters are offered for many programs
around 60 of undergrad opposed graduate
students participate in more than 20
living learning programs that provide
experiential learning opportunities in
more intimate settings
there are a lot of study abroad programs
as well for students that can take
advantage of around 22 percent shouldn't
study abroad in thousands of countries
like Costa Rica Israel Sweden and others
they're available for international
students as well
The Faculty at University of Maryland
are extremely detail-oriented and
Masters in their fields the quality of
teaching here has been pretty good
faculty members are accessible lower
level courses tend to be large and
impersonal but the corresponding weekly
discussion sections led by the teaching
assistants of a personal attention to
those who need it the class size at
University of Maryland is large to
average most of the lower level classes
are about 100 to 200 students and
follows the tutorial group format but
the situation improves when you get into
higher classes which is lesson number so
keeping all this thing in mind I would
like to rate University of Maryland with
four stars on academic difficulty and
quality level if five is the highest
level well after accurate fit let's move
to social fit
well social life in Maryland is epic
students enjoy frequent School sponsored
concerts movies as well as the
traditional fraternities parties Art
Attack is a favorite annual event in
which local artists share their crafts
and National touring artists perform an
evening concert other popular events
include Maryland day and homecoming with
over 800 clubs and different student
organizations at Maryland students will
always be able to find their niche many
clubs are available for you to invest
your time in including an independent
student newspaper non-commercial radio
and a national level competing acapella
groups
Maryland has a huge area of community
and volunteer services that can connect
you with local and National
organizations for Elder Care tutoring
mentoring and environmental action
University of Maryland is about 42 000
students about 30 000 as undergrad and
remaining is pgs and phds the university
has about 70 percent in State student
and rest are out of state including 12
student body as International students
housing is good enough for most students
there are single gender and co-ed
housing available for all only 40 of
students stay on campus if freshmen are
guaranteed housing upperclassmen have
the option of on-campus apartments and
Suites while many Juniors and seniors
seek off-campus accommodation as well
availability of residence hall space is
very limited for graduate students all
requests are initially placed on a
waiting list if space becomes available
graduate students are moved off the
waiting list and assigned a room
enrollment so if you're applying for
graduate make sure to factor in that
the campus is also known for good food
in all three Campus Dining Halls apart
from the housing meal options for
students staying on campus a lot of
on-campus and off-campus food beverage
options are available the quality and
variety are good as well University of
Maryland is big on Sports as well like I
said earlier part of Big Ten division
one and all a handful of intramurals and
45 Club Level Sports draw roughly a
third of the stones men's and women's
lacros are National powerhouses and
men's soccer women's basketball and
field hockey are recent conference
Champs football is pretty famous here as
well University of Maryland offers
competitive academics and good social
life as well so I'd like to give it five
stars out of five on quality of life at
University of Maryland but now let's
move on to financial fit
University of Maryland Falls in an
affordable School category the
expenditure is about 35 to 40 000 US
dollars in annual tuition expenses
without scholarships housing and dining
is about 13 000 to about 16 000 US
Dollars range for the most as soon as
financial aid is concerned the
university has a lot of scholarship
options deserving and qualified students
receive a merit award of a part seven
thousand dollars and athletes can take
advantage of about 400 different
Scholarships in 19 different sports
overall I will give it four stars out of
five on financial fit well after
exploring the fit let's move to the most
curious section on how to Triple your
chance of getting into University of
Maryland with my special admission tips
and strategies the ideas I'm going to
share now come from a decade-long
experience working with students and
career for College admission through my
company and helping a lot of students
get admission to their dream colleges
as far as admissions are concerned
University Maryland follows a holistic
approach University of Maryland is one
of the top colleges in the U.S and the
world the acceptance rate last year was
about 51 overall but a bit lower for
international students so when it comes
to the international student University
of Maryland is extremely selective to
make sure to factor in that
an online application with official
transcripts standardized course like sat
act Greg mat a levels and two letter of
recommendations are required for
completing your application and along
with your course Scholastic activities
also where a community involvement the
Arts Sports work experience research
opportunities family involvement or
other activities and hobbies you should
share only what has been particularly
meaning to you
along with your GPA test course
University of Maryland also looks for
academic Endeavors outside of your
classroom that means what have you done
to pursue your academic interests
outside of your class
University of Maryland looks for breadth
of life experiences and this can be
shown through the activities you have
participated in make sure to highlight
breadth in your profile or diversity in
your profile now I have discussed in
some I really colleges that they look
for depth in your profile university of
Ireland looks for breadth in your
profile which is great because most
students they have it make sure to talk
about this in your application so of
course your extracurricular activities
and any recognition of special
achievements are important in your
application make sure to include this
the most important segment of
application is always the university
essays the university looks for written
expression of ideas through your essays
that is how well you can express your
ideas and that must come through your
essays or statement of purpose
University of Maryland have smaller
supplement essays for most programs it
provides you with the opportunity to
tell the admission committee more about
your personality and experiences so make
sure to talk about that
you Maryland also looks for two things
in your profile Community involvement or
community service and demonstrated
leadership both are super important for
admission so participate in community
service and take on leadership roles and
make sure to mention both in your
applications
the um Maryland also requires all
International students to present
English proficiency all undergraduate or
postgraduate programs require a specific
minimum score for admission ranging
anything about 80 200 TOEFL score and
equivalent in other exams like IELTS
alumni interviews are an optional
component of the application process
available on a limited basis and mostly
to postgraduate and doctoral students
for doctoral applicants committee
interviews are something that can be
expected during admissions
as for the deadlines for admission you
mayilen offers two deadlines for
undergraduate students that is early
action which is only November 1st and
then the regular decision which is about
January
for all postgraduate courses they have
individual Department deadlines with
either one or two deadlines between
September to March every year but
predominantly December January is a most
active time
transfer applicants are welcomed as well
depending upon the availability with
application accepted between November to
March depending upon the course as well
in the end to conclude if you are a
person with diversity enjoy working hard
along with fun loving research-oriented
background you merryland is for you
[Music]
well thank you so much for watching this
video really appreciate it please make
sure to support my work by liking and
sharing this video and also subscribe to
my channel and hit that Bell icon
remember to complete your profile
evaluation as discussed in the beginning
of this video and get your personalized
report for free in fact a lot of
students and parents tell me that the
report is so good they would have paid
for it but it's free for you so yeah
it's one tool that will help you in your
College admission journey and I'm here
with you to support you on this
beautiful Journey if you need any
assistance me and my team are always
here to help you thank you once again
and I'll be back with another amazing
video for you till then this is Sharif
signing off take care bye-bye have a
good one
foreign
[Music]