[Music]
in fulfillment of its founding vision
the Hallie geodata Science Institute
launched on March 1st 2018 in our
inaugural year thanks to carefully
constructed foundations the Institute is
a rising force serving as a vital
resource connecting the campus and the
community in year one we achieve key
milestones in advancing research across
disciplines building effective industry
partnerships and establishing national
leadership HG Si is educating the rising
generations in data science and
fostering top talent that can transform
society our strength comes from that
careful foundation in our visionary
leadership one of the things that
perhaps I'm most excited about I think
is that it's gonna be a lot of
interesting changes in the future here
but I'm really excited that we're
hopefully gonna be on the forefront of
that I do really hope that at some point
we end up with some form of data science
intro to data science in the curriculum
as a general education thing it will
give people an enhanced ability to
reason one of the visionaries behind
building the foundation for HDS I was
professor at Geoffrey Elmen dr. Elman
was an inspiring force who was crucial
in making HSI happen in June 2018 after
years of preparation he along with
co-director Rajesh Gupta delivered a
riveting presentation to the University
Academic Senate that would change the
future of HDS I the result full
independent academic unit status to the
Halle jello data Science Institute sadly
dr. Elman passed away three weeks later
the strength of hzsi foundation is the
key purpose to why we achieve so much
already in our first full academic year
with 600 undergraduates drawn from 32
curricula across campus we have become
the largest data science undergraduate
program in the nation demand for
developing graduate programs has been
nothing less than outstanding with
thousands of interested applicants to
help meet the overwhelming demand for
our educational programs h TSI is now
recruiting multiple new faculty members
with more on the horizon our success
stories continue as our unique Institute
continues to evolve and grow
we've co-sponsored 12 conferences and
symposiums with far-reaching research on
big data ethics database management
medical data sharing statistics and
utilizing data for more effective
fisheries management we've launched
monthly distinguished lecture series
connecting students faculty and the
community with renowned speakers from
around the world we've established a
rich set of weekly technical talks given
by our hzsi faculty council generating
energized discussions on the latest data
science research and cross campus
collaborations building on one of its
core strengths our multidisciplinary
support among hundreds of affiliated
faculty the institute expanded its
leadership in our inaugural year we've
established industry partnerships to
work on real world problems in a short
amount of time
you got some exciting results we were
able to include our researchers to work
with the personnel it's an important
part of what we do is framework is also
to train them about data science so that
they become better and utilizing data
science in various other disciplines we
want to work with them we want to build
a partnership so that they gradually
become more and more competent at using
these processes because that way we win
one of our more enduring visions
building a stronger future by training
the next generation of data science
leaders so it's a really wide range of
things that they're working on reward 30
to 60 scholarships to undergraduates a
year to work on mentored data science
problems
and those could be anything from
students working on large-scale genomic
analyses to the effects of certain kinds
of pitching injuries and baseball
players and things like that in this
ever-changing world data is the key to
unlocking human progress with our
research and bold ideas we're putting
data and all of its powers to good use
[Music]