[Music]
oh Sak weather M hey what daddy that
that is my favorite hey what
Daddy hello everybody Welcome to 18
commune one of the newest restaurants in
Bangalore and we have with us one of the
most talented most loved individuals
from India and also uh Virat vat K kohi
vat Koh have I said it right vat yes you
have thank you so much rul thanks for
being here with me and giving me some of
your precious time the pleasure is all
yours it's great to see you thank you
for being the first guest at 18 commune
in Bangalore and um I would like to ask
you some questions if that's okay with
you it's it's it's is that it's it's
okay this you won't get offended now no
no no I won't sure yeah yeah yeah I'm
very cool who's your favorite cricketer
oh that's a very tricky one and I have
to be very honest you are close second
really yeah very close second sain T is
my favorite cricketer mine also you're
very close second vat now I I have to
take out my facade I'm big fan of course
but yeah close second and maybe by the
time you end your career you'll be on
top yeah no that won't happen because
for me he he will always be on top so
I'm I'm happy being the second yeah but
thank you so much okay so I have two
more questions for you okay okay it's a
very controversial one all right sweet
sambar or spicy sambar you have to
settle the debate because everyone's
watching so V although I love Bangalore
I'm also a tamilan and
I must say I never got I never
understood sweet sambar I mean you can't
have sambar which is sweet it has to be
spicy I I'll leave the answer to you I'm
not going to answer that because when I
step out of chinos Swami there are 5,000
people there I want them to still greet
me okay so I don't want to be in trouble
so I'm going to stay tight L the third
question tell me the best thing about
Bangalore and you know you cannot say
the weather because I've seen your
standup video and the only thing you
mentioned is is weather something else
okay there are two things one is
Bangalore is the only place where I love
walking in these small streets and I
think it's very
lovely the latest restaurant
[Music]
commune that's how you plug in yes I
love it that's exactly why we have him
here but I have a question for you yes
uh about the
location loation straight next to the
Swami
Stadium
Fair great I'm not talking about street
food I'm talking about restaurants yeah
uh which is a definite guarantee with
bnet commun there's no doubt about it
talking about sixes that land on the
Terrace I'm not the right person to talk
about it the two individuals who' have
done that in Bangalore many times Chris
Gail and ab deas both have hit the ball
to kab park
or
AE I haven't been able to do in
Bangalore
Hotel have a place where I can eat good
food and go to the
hotel let's
hope how did your Association start with
Bangalore I've been going to Bangalore
every year since my childhood because my
cousin stay there and I also started
dating my girlfriend there she also
broke up with me there we know the RCB
connection but apart from that the first
uh connect with Bangalore actually we
used to have all the national Cricket
Academy camps there so I actually went
to Bangalore when I was 13 the first
time and these camps used to be 2 and a
half to 3 months long so I spent a lot
of time there and then IPL happened uh I
was picked by Bangalore I ended up
becoming a Bangalore boy people were
confused actually after a while whether
I'm from Delhi or bangal Bangalore then
when I met Anushka I found out that she
grew up in Bangalore herself oh wow I
father was posted in Bangalore so she
literally grew up there she had so many
friends there and now you know me and
there's one more this was the the cherry
on the cake if I didn't know you I don't
think my my Bangalore cycle would have
been complete lockdown I'm
sure that time I'm sure you also were
missing coming to Bangalore how did it
feel it's something that I can try to
put it in words but I cannot explain the
emotion behind it because when we landed
in in Bangalore at the airport and when
people saw me after 2
years what I saw in their eyes I cannot
explain to you you know that genuine
happiness and like ear toe smile seeing
me it made me very emotional actually I
could never have imagined receiving so
much love love
wow thank
you you must try both oh this food looks
lovely being an NBA I have to ask you a
few NBA questions
also with your partners I want to know
who the target audience in all the other
places that we've done so far it's about
inclusivity and that's exactly what we
want to bring to Bangalore as well it's
designed for all communities hence it's
called one8 commune and the menu is
living proof of that that when you see
the menu you feel like oh there's
something for me there's something for
me there's something for me and I can
enjoy delicious food across whatever
preferences anyone
has which is like a long time back yeah
at that point of time what were your
favorite food to eat here yeah the
Revelation for me was
and I was
like that was a revolution and crispy
dosas for me was like unreal that that
is something that I would never forget
that first experience and the second
dish I tried with stood out for me was
chicken 65 30 40 pieces I used to smash
in one 30 40 pieces yeah how how old
were you 13 when I went there for the
first time so you were a finisher t
combin and be honest eating chili
chicken with uh dry tanduri Roti and
mint Chutney okay or just a oh dry no
gravy anyway no gravy Suki Roti chili
chicken and mint Chutney interesting
that used to be but now it's changed to
but it's still not that I mean it's not
weird it's I won't call it but yeah it's
off yeah I have I have which are very
weird but I'm very proud of it banana
chips M with ketchup yeah yeah I know I
know this is the first reaction right
yeah but go beyond it give it a chance
it's amazing and and second is wed fried
rice with Dal TKA guys you have to try
this and W fried
rice making fried rice with um vegetable
stock have you ever made
is outstanding it's it's better than any
Street side fried rice you've eaten in
your whole
life I like this one a
lot Sushi love it Canada words yeah
bangalorian
slangs backs off I don't know but a few
words I've seen observed over over the
years uh one is yuru that then hey what
Daddy yeah just these are I mean I this
is what we mostly here in the cricket
circuit I don't know many what about you
I I also know very little I understand a
lot of Canada because I know Tamil I
know Tamil okay similar okay or is my
favorite what is that this side that
side Tamil I understand only two
things PADI pady Madi means a yeah p
means P or kadi means glasses just fun
fact for you it's just extra
knowledge at least can you please talk
about the Bangalore weather MAA oh s
weather whether in Bangalore I mean you
can't you can't ignore the weather in
Bangalore summer time MH when we reached
Bangalore it was afternoon like take
sun's
out evening it was windy in summer
24° I got confused because I came from
Delhi it was almost 40° and uh the fact
that we had to wear a light jacket every
evening in summer was the thing that
actually made me fall fall in love with
Bangalore
anak we'll play something very
interesting okay uh this game is called
let's find out how bangalorian Virat Koh
is oh God it's a rated on a scale of 1
to 10 May
judge are we ready we yeah
okay yeah well done one and half one and
half yeah yeah but context
context ID
live I'll give you a hint mode of
Transport
bus Auto h Auto aut one and half means
what does that
me
and 1.5 they very good in
math wow that's why I ended up paying so
much money I never knew
quad I've heard it so much I just don't
remember the meaning innocent yes yes
adjust Mar adjust
h i you're doing pretty well now three
out of four that's not bad at all yaep
is that to uh depict surprise or
astonishment yeah but use it in a line
and I then I'll give you points like if
you're shocked to see like if you're
shocked to see yeah something which you
didn't expect like if you're shocked to
see your favorite comedians sitting
across you yeah I was like when you came
in I was fck right yeah okay all right
good stuff punter punter is like a
friend who's
OC okay now I I don't want you to guess
immediately I'll give you some hint OC
is something Everyone
likes no I've got no idea what does it
mean OC is free free okay yeah okay
Cricket integration brilliant thanks
thanks one but you're still doing well
okay next one put off full put off like
that uh no I've never heard anyone say
that honestly okay just put it I so that
doesn't count but put it in sentence I I
might okay M let's put off a scene
tonight now I understood to make
something happen yes yes it's a very
like
friends cool yeah all right we are next
one it's also pretty simple s s sir yes
yeah that I've heard that you have heard
we last one all right if you get it
right then you have passed okay Jang I'm
going to spell it for you DJ a n g Jang
I'm sure I've heard this somewhere I can
use it in the sentence this one if if
you want I don't think I'll get it okay
go ahead vat Koh is a jang person must
or cool cool cool cool I'll give it
we'll give it thank you so much thank
you folks I think that was fantastic by
vat vat you scored a massive mive 9 on
10 in fact it's 9.5 and for good
handwriting we'll give you 10 and you
you are a true bangalorian big round of
applause wherever you guys are for vat
kohi what a wonderful performance V How
Does it Feel feels great clapping for
myself there's a 5sec delay because
these guys are watching it on TV no
thank you so much thank you so much for
uh having me here pleas pleasure thank
you so much for being here it's an
absolute pleasure and I look forward to
come with my friends and family to this
wonderful restaurant absolutely you're
more than welcome anytime in the future
we would love to have you all over again
and everyone who's been watching and
who's seen our interaction please come
and visit 188 commune in Bangalore
absolutely as you can be a part of the
community that we have tried to create
and you will have a lot of fun that's
guaranteed