I'm not doing anything is the next next
allegation I can't do anything is my
answer no why don't you meet them I met
them but you're not doing anything I
can't adir G please understand I don't
have the right to change as per my whims
and fancies that I like a state or this
state is against my Party politics and
therefore no
way
non-bjp rulle states are being deprived
from having their legitimate due have
you started spending on items which you
are not supposed to spend I'm not even
questioning that do spend it but don't
put the blame on me a G I'm sorry six
till 6 months ago which government was
there it's not my role now to talk Hy
Dori it was no it's not introspect
please I have no role in fact in fact I
would have to follow it
100% so this apprehension that some
states are being discriminated against
is a politically viated narrative which
I'm sorry to say vested interests are
happy to go about saying it there's just
not a possibility that any Finance
Minister can intervene to say I don't
like this state stop the payment no way
it cannot happen that way madam
so the Devolution of taxes including GST
everything has been prescribed by our
constitutions and it is and
constitutional mandate which is to be
abided by you but mam don't take it
otherwise there is a general perceptions
being grown Across the
Nation that non-bjp ruled states are
being deprived from having their
legitimate due
the latest example is Karnataka where
the entire Ministry has been agitating
against the indiscriminate and arbitrary
attitude of your
administrations they are alleging that
they are being
famed by sheer discrimination being
played from your
ministry I would like to
know
whether state government of
katak has been deprived from obtaining
their legitimate due because few months
ago the situation was not there that
time everything was going hunky D but
after the new installation of government
because the non-bjp government has been
assumed there since then that trouble
has been started on what is the reason
behind this kind of
deprivation Tamil
NAD
sir Devolution to the States this is
beyond of course this question sir but
still because it's an important question
on which the leader of the opposition is
asking a question I would certainly
respond Devolution to the states happens
in the Direct Tax
Matters as per the recommendation given
by the finance
commission the
GST particularly the SG St the state GST
goes 100% to the states no one can do
anything with it it has automatic
provision that 100% collected by the
states will be with them I repeat 100%
is with
them
igst is collected because it involves a
lot of Interstate
payments it is periodically reviewed
also by the GST Council it is because
because State should get the money in
their hand roughly grossly 50% is
divided and then periodically it is
readjusted to
actuals so if a state were to get 41 and
not
50 adjustment happens if a state were to
get 52 adjustment happens so every now
and then when money gets accumulated
under the
igst it is divided grossly at 50/50 to
all states and gets reconciled over the
time according to the data that comes
up the
cgst is divided as per the advice 42%
goost of the finance commission so if
this is direct tax GST sir direct
taxation is completely determined by the
proportions decided and suggested and
accepted and implemented by the central
government now of course some states and
this rate fixation is nothing to do with
the government of India rate fixation as
to how much should go to a state is done
by the finance commission and does the
finance commission sit in one place and
take a call on it no it goes all over
meets with every state government talks
to them and only then submits the
report I want to humbly Summit before
you so that
adir G please
understand I don't have the right to
change as per my whims and
fancies that I like a state or this
state is against my Party politics and
therefore no
way I have no role in fact in fact I
would have to follow it 100% and that's
what I've done in my term here and
that's what every Finance Minister does
in their term Finance commission giving
recommendation that which I have to
implement it is done without any kind of
fear or favor or anything like that so
this
apprehension that some states are being
discriminated against is a politically
viated narrative which I'm sorry to say
vested interests are happy to go about
saying it there's just not a possibility
that any Finance Minister can intervene
to say I don't like the state stop the
payment no way it cannot happen that way
the systems are well
placed that the recommendations of the
finance commission for every month's
Devolution will have to
happen but now that adir g himself has
said politically you're doing this I
want to also say and he I I want
to all right let me answer your first
question and also join on your second
additional Point sir adanan G saying in
this first place only said 6 months till
6 months it were all anori now it's not
can I seeking your Indulgence
say uh till 6 months if it was anid Dory
what's going wrong now have you started
spending on items which you are not
supposed to spend I'm not even
questioning that do spend it but don't
put the blame on me don't put the blame
on the center because it goes by the
rule book it has to give it will give if
the expenditure are going into areas
which cannot be sustained by your budget
I'm not answerable for
that so ad G I'm sorry six till 6 months
ago which government was there it's not
my role now to talk hky Dory it was no
it's not introspect
please you saying that I didn't say that
you are saying that sir therefore
therefore adir G I respect him I give
him detailed answer but if there is an
insinuation that it's because me holding
money here I'm sorry when the finance
commission comes please tell your needs
please tell your requirements please
tell your status and let the finance
commission fix it it's a constitutional
[Music]
body okay okay Finance commission is now
oh one minute one minute pleas please
oh surely I'll I'll certainly sit with
the Karnataka Minister deputy chief
minister honorable me DK shukar G came
and met me he told me about the
difficults I've heard him I've given
them the matter of fact answer it's not
as if I don't want to meet State
authorities State
ministers anything this is the problem I
can't do as long as the finance
commission doesn't tell me to do
constitutionally unless the finance
commission tells me to do something I
cannot I don't have the discretion ad G
please don't imagine that I have a
discretion to play around with Finance
commission's recommendations please talk
to the finance
commission I'm not talking about
generosity sir I'm talking about Finance
commission's recommendation which I
follow to the last word I'm not talking
about anybody's generosity
so let us please talk on the
terms Finance commission gives me a
recommendation I follow it now suddenly
ad G says meet up the state I've met up
the state I'm not doing anything it's
the next next allegation I can't do
anything is my answer no why don't you
meet them I met them but you're not
doing anything I
can't