arrest of BRS leader K Kavita in
Hyderabad in the Delhi Lea policy case
All Eyes now on Delhi chief minister
Arvin
krial who has been skipping summons by
the investigating agency and now Delhi
court has rejected kri Wild's plea to
State proceedings against it the court
has asked kri wild to appear before it
on Saturday but has granted Liberty to
krial to move the trial court to seek
exempt from personal appearance in the
matter krial had challenged the sumon
issued by the Magistrate Court asking
him to appear before the court on March
16th this is
after he had filed two complaints
against him for skipping
summons the latest complaint was related
to kri while not honoring someone's
number four to8 sent by federal agent
under Section 50 of the prevention of
money laundering act remember the Delhi
chief minister has SKT eight summons
issued against him so far in the Delhi
leer case the excise policy was aimed at
boosting the city's flagging leer
business by replacing a sales volume
based regime with the license fee for
Traders two senior up leaders Manish
sisodia and Sanji Singh already under
judicious custody in the case delhi's
deputy chief minister Manish
codia was arrested on the 25th of
February last year after an 8-hour
questioning session by the Central
Bureau of Investigation which is probing
alleged irregularities in the now scrt
Delhi excise
policy
rmp sanj sing was arrested by the
anti-money laundering Agency on October
4th last here is accused of playing a
significant role in the formulation and
implementation of the excise policy
additionally former Delhi Minister and
up
leader was arrested on May 30th 2022
under sections of the prevention of
money laundering act and is presently in
judicial custody in the
case for all the latest news download
the we on app And subscribe to our
YouTube channel