hi everyone so this video is an investor
education initiative by incred money
this is a Sab registered Bond investment
platform in case you're interested in
checking out and figuring out how to do
investment in bonds do check out the
links in the description and comment box
there are more details that we have
presented the content has been made by
industry experts with Decades of
experience in bond investing and credit
analysis hi everyone welcome to today's
video so a natural question in the
market right now is that should you wait
for the market to fall and then invest
or should you continue to invest because
the Market gave a rally and then it has
been consolidating sideways so natural
response you know what let the market
Fall then I will invest should you do
that the short answer is no you should
not be doing it because then you will
miss out on some really great buying
opportunities my hypothesis is that the
market is very much in the bull run
right now and the biggest Bull Run is
yet to come so you should continue to
invest in what format I will tell you
what I'm going to do is that I'm going
to make a macro case I'm going to help
you understand macroeconomics
Sensibility in very easy to understand
language so just a humble request that
if you do like these type of macro
oriented videos do press the like button
that's one second key thing is that I'm
going to go into stock specific things
macroeconomics I will give you stockwise
details of some of the good stocks that
you could consider buying and some of
the stocks that you should be selling
okay so with that view point in mind let
us kick start and there are five key
macro points that you should know simple
so the first key point that you must
understand is that the interest rates
are going to get cut this year now this
is not just me saying this is what many
economists are predicting that there
will be multiple rate Cuts this year in
fact many countries have started to cut
interest rate this is a very good macro
chart it highlights that some countries
are already cutting interest rate in q1
of the Year 2024 some are expected to
cut in Q2 of 2024 so on and so
and what good will that lead to well
when the interest rates are cut the cost
of borrowing comes down for example
think about it this way that right now
if you have a home loan and if you have
recently picked it up then the Emi
payment would be at like 9 and a half%
right so 9 and a half% home loan
depending on a lot of other things so
this is fairly high if the interest rate
gets cut then what is going to happen is
that that home loan rate is is going to
come down similarly any type of
borrowing rate is going to come down and
that is generally good for the market BB
interest rate cut and when the interest
rates are cut and are made low then the
market gives out its biggest
rally for example if you take a look at
this particular chart you will see that
2008 crisis and from 2009 all the way
till roughly 2013 2014 the interest
rates were close to 0%
cris8 stock market should have become
absolute daba no absolutely not in fact
if you take a look I will show you
n50 20089 zero interest rate period and
all the way till
20156 2013 so Market almost three times
in the next 5 years despite the world
witnessing its biggest crisis again
something similar happened that in 20120
covid crisis was there the interest
rates were cut to zero again you can see
this from the chart that the interest
rates were close to.
25% double the stock market in a very
short span of time so to cut the long
story short whenever interest rates are
cut that is when we see the biggest
stock market rally right now in actual
terms we are at 5 and a half 6% interest
rate this is going to get cut this year
and in 2025 also expectations are that
it will start to get cut somewhere in
the second half of 2024 and the game is
going to continue all the way till 2026
okay so this is a perod which might be
very useful for the market but a counter
argument counter argument is that see
elections are going to happen so we
don't know what happens after election
policy continuation will be there or not
there so all those things need to be
factored in but if you just keep the
next 6 to 12 months view point we should
still remain in the market we should
continue to buy it okay so this is point
one interest rate it's not what I'm
saying it it's what economists are
generally telling us so this is first
key factor the second key key factor is
the movement of money from bond market
to equity market and from Equity Market
to bond market now whenever the money
moves from Equity Market to bond market
the equity Market or the stock market
Falls when opposite happens market and
the money moves from bond market to
equity Market the stock market
Rises so in case you're enjoying this do
consider subscribing to this Channel and
also press the like button because
so hopefully you will like it right now
what has happened in the last two years
is that the bond market was giving very
good returns now what is the meaning of
this well in simple term it means that
for example if the base interest rates
are close to 6% now this is fairly High
rate of interest that people can make or
investors can make by staying in the
bond market so
Bond now what will happen is that as the
interest rate gets cut what will happen
is that instead of this being 6% it will
become 5 and a half%
then 5% then 4 and a half% right so on
and so
forth know
what so I will go to equity market and
whenever money starts coming to the
equity Market what will happen to the
equity Market it will become a rocket
the returns that you will make you will
see very strong returns and in that
context you need to understand that when
when money is shifted from bond market
to equity Market what type of stocks are
going to give a r up
this is something that I will teach on
my member Community also I write posts
like these Concepts so I'll write a post
on this tomorrow okay so to cut the long
story short this is the second key thing
that is going to happen in the next 6 to
12 months and therefore I feel that the
market is still very much bullish the
third key thing that is happening in the
market is that the consumer demand will
be revived in the next 1 to two years
now what you need to understand is that
in the last 2 years basically our GDP
has gone up now why does the GDP go up
because the private expenditure goes up
or the government expenditure goes up or
both the things go up and that is one
aspect of understanding GDP private
consumption
means spending more money in the economy
and as a result you know the economy is
growing and GDP is growing on the flip
side what can happen is that the
government is spending a lot of
so in Indian context what has been
happening is very simple if you go and
look at public sector units the
government is actually selling it stake
right% holding now they have brought it
down to 60% so they have sold like 10%
of holding that they
had now this money they have actually
gone and spent on developing
infrastructure GP right so the last two
years have been about government
spending and the government is taking
more and money on deficit it is
financing its infrastructure spent by
what I just told you so government
spending has been high okay and now it
is estimated that the government
spending is going to be lesser in the
next 2 years this is a negative point
about the economy that the government
spending will be less why because
government has decided that it is going
to reduce something called as fiscal
deficit right your fiscal
deficit they are going to bring it down
to roughly 5 4 and a half 5% over the
next 2 years so what that indirectly
means is that the government spending is
going to go low okay very important
point you have to be little bit careful
which brings me to what type of stocks
you can sell okay so let me just quickly
show something to you so for example if
you take a look at rvnl
right for example ratio is highest ever
PE ratio right so it's the most
expensive so to say right price right
for example in 2022 the stock used to
trade at 33 rupees and it made a peak of
320 rupees so almost 10 times stock
right and it has now corrected by a lot
and straight line decline if if the
fundamentals of the company are not
aligned with the stock price growth okay
I'm not saying that you know only rvnl
and you know all
thefc but the probability of fall is
much much higher okay so for example why
am I saying it right simp profit Revenue
pre it was at
10,000 what about net profits
dou and how much has the stock price
gone up by
right
price the stock price like 189 rupes or
something and yeah it became like 15 16
times okay now does the stock price
increase align with the performance of
the company the short answer is no this
is a sentiment driven
rally yes the government was obligated
to spend money in order to increase GDP
over the last two years
soash and then you'll be stuck with
these type of stocks for 10 10 15 15
years right so be a little bit careful
do not build positions on these type of
companies this is what I would suggest
from a macro point of view that the risk
reward does not make any sense so okay
coming back to the point that I was
making that the private spending is
going to increase for
example
durables why you know people are not
going to buy like washing machine TV AC
and all this stuff but if you go and
check and that has been a problem for
the last 3 four years if you go and
check stocks like world poool and all
that three four year negative returns
right so I mean which is really really
bad from that perspective what is the
number one reason for that
well durable
Lo consumer Dem private demand is not
there now government is not going to
sell at stake and buy like washing
machines okay so that is not going to
happen the Revival of consumer durable
stocks will happen when private sector
spending increases okay so this is
likely to increase now why because the
sentiments on private spending has been
the lowest now right it is probably at
its worst phase now right private
spending also happens in a
[Music]
cycle then people start getting job
right so whatever goes up comes down and
whatever goes down also in a way comes
back up right so from that perspective
it's a good cycle right and private
sector demand is likely to revive what
governments are betting on is the fact
that see if the government spending is
brought down by 10% then private
spending is likely to increase by
10% then what is it that the government
is going to
do okay so that this balance game is
somewhat maintained
and that it might take roughly like 6 to
12 months for private sector spending to
increase but once that starts to happen
fmcg consumer durable companies are
likely to give very good run up right
exactly I will let you guys know right I
write these type of detailed post on my
YouTube member community in case you are
a serious
investor knowledge your knowledge will
go up dramatically I am already telling
you people have been extremely happy
with the entire experience of community
membership so try it out for a couple of
months and you yourself will see a
difference the fourth key point is
regarding the government spending as I
was speaking on the earlier point I will
now explain it slightly differently by
using some data right so for example
take a look at this particular chart and
what you will notice is that this 2023
is the actual spending by the government
right and gross tax collection total
direct tax collection fiscal deficit
fiscal
defic that government is earning 100
rupes okay and it is doing a or
expenditure of 106 rupees then what is
the fiscal deficit fiscal deficit is
roughly 6% okay so that is the meaning
of fiscal deficit that government
earning but it is spending money by
borrowing money right so that is that
reflects in the form of deficit now what
government is telling you now is that
see these are our revised estimates
these are our budget estimates and as
per these different estimates this is
the likely scenario in 2024 and 2025
that we are going to move from 6.4%
deficit to 5.1% deficit so this is a big
cut so they are going to slow down in
terms of spending money on
infrastructure projects I'm not saying
infrastructure B all I'm saying is that
there will be slow down in expenditure
for example public sector units so they
if they are running without fundamentals
it becomes a problem example irfc right
so for example right it's a almost
200,000 CR company right this is not a
small cap midcap type of a company and
people are betting it double right so
okay let's go 2021 this is where the
story starts 24 25 rupes right okay so
it became how much like seven eight
times right so this is like absolute
crazy growth the chances of it falling
is much much higher compared to chances
of it growing okay so because the
government cannot keep on spending money
at the same rate as it has been doing
more importantly we don't know in which
area the government will spend on
infrastructure for example
subcontracting
projects roads transport Focus instead
of rail so it's very hard to guess there
is much higher likelihood of failure by
investing in these type of
stocks 100%
it's not as if that I have miss you
cannot make money from every single
stock that is out there and
rally listed stocks there are 6,000
listed stocks in India can you make
money from every single bet that you are
taking no all you have to Simply do is
portfolio you invest like let's say 5
six seven lakh rupees a year andal right
your goal is I make like 25 30% Returns
on my Capital right and beat the market
that is what your goal is so as long as
that is happening sensibly without you
taking unnecessary risk staying in the
market for long term those are the
things that you need to understand my
students understand all these
points
gain has grown a lot
NAC there are like 100 different things
so right now I'm putting a lot of money
in micro caps I feel that there is a
good rally that is about to come in
micro cap segment why Fifth and final
reason when the interest rates are high
a lot of companies default on their debt
now what type of companies will default
on their debt well these would be
companies cash flows small companies
they will struggle to expand their
operations they might not be profitable
so in a high interest rate phase of the
economy these companies get crushed okay
so two two and a half years the interest
rates have been very high micro cap
companies small cap midcap companies
Crush majority of them have already
gotten crushed now when the interest
rate goes low these type of companies in
a growing economy one could say that
they have been able to survive so at
least and if there is no problem in the
midcap small cap micro cap segment then
these are the type of companies that can
easily double example solar right now
this is a company in in which Reliance
has picked up stake in the year 2022
okay and S SW solar compon energy say
right so I will just do that comparison
very quickly so what you will notice
is this is a 13,000 CR company this is
not very big like irfc you know rvnl and
all that stuff solar is a growing
industry so to say support and when does
the support happen well the support
happens when the economies are growing
for example one of the Prime reasons why
suzon energy got crushed for example
suon energy used to be like a
multibagger stock so to say up until
20088 and then it fell all the way all
the way to 178
R8 because that was the shrinkage phase
of the
economy donation grants government
spending on like Renewables this that
when does it pick up well it picks up in
a good economy when the interest rates
are low
funding so 20 8 2020 these were bad
phases so to say temporarily
right for
example right it was trading at 600
rupees it fell all the way to 97 by 2020
right so and after that it has been
consolidating compared to other solar
companies so to say it has not given the
type of run up that other solar
companies have given this is a small cap
stock of course there is risk I'm not
pushing you to buy this stock I'm simply
helping you understand understand the
rational and it has been bagged by a big
player for example Reliance is a very
big player regulation it can handle
turnaround stock according to me solar
is in that turnaround
phase 15% all that stuff so to cut the
long story short these are Central macro
points that you need to understand now
comes a very natural
response you are talking about all this
stuff and there is a chance that these
stocks will not grow of course the there
is a very high chance that these stocks
will not grow problems maybe economy
will shrink who knows maybe there will
be a new war maybe China will suffer lot
more than we are expecting so in that
situation there is likely to be high
volatility in the market for the next 2
years
because for example interest rate cut
right it used to be let's say somewhere
in 2008 roughly
5.25 200
similarly right from for example in 2022
and we are in 2024 again interest rate
for two years interest rate kept on
going up so the next two years are going
to be about interest rate Cuts so it
might take from 2024 to 2026 for the
interest rate to go from 6% all the way
till New Normal whatever that is roughly
let's say
3% right so in this 2ear period there
will be high vola
in the market now
volatility for example we are at 21,600
right now okay so volatility it will
probably trade in this range okay so for
example maybe the market will be like
let's say 30,000 and all the way to
20,000 so market right for the next two
years so this is the range in which it
will move when the interest rate gets
cut then there will be another big rally
that is likely to come so this is what
my approximation is for the next 2 years
because the economy looks more stable
than it was looking in the last 3 to 4
months now why did that happen because
one of the primary concerns or there
were two primary concerns one was
regarding the US growth rate so the data
is coming in regarding the US growth
rate it looks okay there is no problem
in terms of us growth rate job situation
no issues there second was the problem
with the Chinese economy that their real
estate market had completely crashed and
there was massive pain in the Chinese
economy Chinese and Alibaba stocks
because of that reason and it's still
going down because of that reason so the
extent of damage people were expecting
on the Chinese economy now economists
are coming out saying Dage it's okay
damage I mean it's it's bad that Chinese
economy is not growing uh but to cut the
long story short the situation they were
expecting maybe like you know 100 units
of damage but the damage has been 80
units right so from that perspective the
situation in China also does not look
that bad so therefore it is being
doubted that for the next couple of
years there is unlikely to be any major
dangers to the world economy a major
danger already world is rebuilding from
that and once things are back on track
just for example inflation problem solve
right for example political stability
right I mean one could argue that it is
Rise of rightwing all across the world
for example
puy all that
stuff so from that perspective there is
more political stability in the world so
to say and when the interest rates are
made low for example 3% or 0% hopefully
then the world is going to trade more
and that will be good for the world so
to say so that is my hypothesis there is
there are problems around debt which can
translate into bigger problems in the
world but by keeping the market sideways
volatile this debt can also be brought
down not in absolute term but the growth
rate of debt will be brought down okay
so that is likely to happen
hopefully now a natural resp
come right
see also hedging my portfolio for that I
investing in something called as MLD
Market linked debentures expl now what
are exactly Market linked debentures so
for example when big investors invest
money for example if they are buying
let's say 10 crores of HDFC Bank stock
okay so as a this is called as naked
position
okay
hfc this 10 Capital becomes like 2 right
very quickly
but in case this happens right so big
investors who are putting big big money
in the market what they do is that they
do something called as hedging okay so
they will for example uh buy insurance
via derivative products or they can buy
call putut options in order to hedge
their
portfolio we can execute it and in that
way our loss is reduced now for retail
investors like you and me it's a problem
because which expiry to buy how to
square off positions taxation
treatment so for that you can buy mlds
okay so these are Market linked
debentures these are principal protected
type
mlds if you put 100 rupes then the value
of that 100 rupes will remain 100 rupees
worst case scenario okay so this is
worst case scenario best case scenario
you are going to make 33% or 33 rupees
on it okay and let me just give you
different scenarios of the market that
how does this particular MLD works and I
have linked one of my articles on MLD
you can go and read it understand it
more and then if it makes sense for you
you can take some positions via MLD see
negative scenario for example Market
from roughly
21,500 and it falls to 17,600 so this is
roughly a 20% Nifty loss in your case if
you have put money in MLD your loss will
be 0% over the next 2 years okay bullish
scenario right then you'll make even
more money the point is that your
capital is not lost that is the good
part of investing in this MLD in case
you want to understand more I have
linked My article you can go and read it
B specific stocks key right and which is
many people might be waiting but I'll
just give you a very quick picture here
and this is a very interesting chart
that you can take a look right so for
example here what is happening is that
this gives you a forward 12 Monon price
to earning ratios of different
Industries is say every single industry
is overvalued just a consumer dur
discretionary or Consumer Staples be
overvalued why because consumer demand
is less so therefore it is expected
earnings that is what analysts are
expecting so except for private Banks
and maybe Finance stocks every other
sector is
overvalued why 80 85% of my money is now
in finance here is the reason why okay
that right now banks are somewhat
undervalued except for banks in the
Indian economy most of the things are
unfortunately
overvalued again I had given you the
reason when I was discussing macros that
due to government spending government
spends on infrastructure right so
infrastructure right and private
consumption consum Staples Consumer
discretionary it yeah it's just in bad
shape we don't know what is going to
happen next I'll make like a separate
video on my Hindi Channel I will link it
it somewhere in the description comment
box you can go and check it out right I
will give you industry specific
Viewpoint of different different stocks
so to cut the long story short here are
three four key points I will tell you
about stocks see it D we don't know what
is going to happen there is no clear
indication where growth is going to come
from I hold it I have started to sell it
okay so very simply put 36% gain m in
the it index in less than a year very
happy with that but now I started to
exit positions because I don't know
where the next round of growth is going
to come midgap it I'm not buying at all
right I see very big risk in that
rvnl
sector because government is likely to
sell some Holdings in it and bl
deal and you might not be able to exit
it sensibly if you are looking for multi
Baggers then picking something like
micro caps might make the most sense
right now I will give you a detailed
View point on micro cap investing over
the next 15 days on my YouTube member
Community Channel right I will write
detailed
post I have started to build positions
on micro caps on top of that if you're
looking for safe investment options it's
private sector Banks right
now Anis on different different sectors
so that will give you more confidence
Commodities now it is a very dangerous
time for
Commodities gasia and all that stuff
dangerous stuff right now because we
don't know to what extent governments
are going to spend money right because
interest rate cut then it's mostly about
private consumption right it's not that
much about government spending so be a
little bit sensible finally prepare for
volatility two years is going to be a
volatile phase because interest rate it
will not come in one only right so so
that's the Viewpoint I hope that it gave
you sense it gave you Clarity on how you
can redesign your portfolio in case
you're considering that thank you so
much for watching and I'll see you very
soon investments in debt Securities
Municipal debt Securities securitized
debt instruments are subject to risks
including delay and or default in
payment read offer documents carefully
before investing