[Music]
what is up Triton's michael coming at
you back keep saying that wrong coming
back to you with another video now you
may have noticed I switched the channel
name from Mars daughter to Michael and
my QL nothing has really changed I just
felt like I liked the name Michael a
little bit more than Mars daughter Mars
daughter was like a permutation slash
conjunction of my last name and uh I
sort of liked in the beginning but you
know as I started doing YouTube a little
bit more I'm leaning more towards
Michael so if you look at my other
videos the intro is gonna be the same
it's gonna say Mars odd or I'll probably
introduce myself as Mars daughter
everything's the same except I'm just
gonna be going for Michael now and my QL
because there's too many other Michaels
on YouTube I've just spell it in a very
fun way but yeah so that was just a
quick announcement nothing's changed
just more of a name change but to get
into the juicy meat and potatoes of this
video if you haven't seen my hue in my
video check that bad boy out right here
Waypoint right right there I am going
into be I'm going to be a senior at the
University of California San Diego and
I'm gonna answer some questions about
what does it actually like studying so
I'm studying math and computer science
with a minor in entrepreneurship and
innovation again all stated in my who am
i videos but to address the elephant in
the video is UC San Diego actually
socially dead now quick answer is I
don't think it is now I'm going off I
don't really have a lot of comparison
because you know I only go to one
University but from what people have
said they have been to multiple
universities and they have said that
UCSD is more fun so I had a friend who
just transferred to Berkeley and he says
UCSD is actually more fun now you
actually have to the difference between
you know other universities I don't need
to say normal the difference between
other universities and UCSD is the fact
that other universities you may not have
to go out of your way to find the fun
but at UCSD you kind of do so whether
that's joining Greek life joining us on
campus student organizations going out
of your comfort zone to meet people from
other colleges I'll mention the college
system in a bit and I'm a math and Comp
Sci major so I fully get immersed in
that like social awkwardness culture
because once people go into that CS
dungeon there there ain't no talking in
there no - one thing I do notice I used
to be a Steve mmm sorry just a some
really hot broccoli one thing I do
notice that UCSD is that there seems to
be sort of like a negative opinion among
students they're like oh I didn't get
any UCLA oh I didn't get any UC Berkeley
didn't get in a Stanford
there's like this weird like just pity
party going on a little bit where people
are just complaining that they didn't
get into one University you know you
can't go in with that mindset otherwise
you're just gonna be bummed all the time
I was bummed I didn't get into UCLA yeah
I was really bummed but I was also
really grateful I got in the UCSD cuz
UCSD is a great school so you know if
you're going to UCSD you might encounter
some people that are just real Debbie
downers so either just don't hang out
with those people or you know try not to
get affected by them you know and
overall I think UCSD actually has pretty
good programs if you look into their
cognitive science department the CS
Department a lot of these STEM fields
UCSD is really really well respected in
those communities so if you're going for
stem UCSD is a great choice if you're
going for arts you know maybe consider
something else cuz you see it's not
really known for arts so to touch on the
six College System a little bit there's
six colleges throughout UCSD and they're
kind of like the houses of Hogwarts each
College each College has a specific
orientation this has a specific goal in
mind specific general education
requirements stuff like that so I was in
Roosevelt College Eleanor Roosevelt
College and that was really focused on
becoming a global scholar so basically
the GE requirements where I did take you
know
language I had to take history in a
certain region you know I had to take
some making of the modern world classes
writing classes so things are really
focused on global history and things
like that becoming a world sis and where
as a college like Warren College a are a
very engineering base though a lot of
their other requirements still have to
do with maybe some more math classes
some more quantitative classes I don't
actually know the requirements but you
can find them out pretty easily but I
know that Warren is pretty much known to
be the engineering college but you can
be any major and be in any college with
that which i think is actually really
cool I actually like the college system
a lot you get to know the people in your
college you take all your general
education classes with them and then
you'll take all those fun major classes
with the people in your major you get a
kind of a little fun dichotomy that's a
fun word dichotomy or you're taking GE
requirements with people you live with
and then major requirements with people
and other get up meet a lot of new
people also when you're applying to
colleges ear see has the best dorms ERC
is also for all the freshmen they do
like fun games and stuff where you get
to compete against the other colleges
stuff like that just to get everyone
nice and warmed up for the cold Ege also
UCS T's campus is pretty interesting
it's not like a normal college campus I
when I remember when I toured it I got a
very like techy vibe almost like it's
very modern the way it's laid out it's
not like a like a Harvard or Princeton
where they look sort of like castles
very like modern very techy a lot of
like contrasts things like that the
architecture is very interesting it's
pretty cool so if you're into that
that's also a plus one of the main
downsides is that it almost feels like
the university is a little bit greedy so
it's like I pay so much in tuition
I feel like I'm paying I have to pay for
everything I have to pay for parking I
have to pay for food all the time I have
to pay for like all these other things
so it seems like universities a little
bit greedy but again UC San Diego is
just one of the UC system schools so
it's pretty much gonna be the same
throughout all you sees but
that's just a major wall that I hear a
lot like I hear the parking one a lot is
that there's no parking and it's
expensive to park like it's like $700
for the year to get a parking permit
which is like ridiculous if I'm already
paying so much for tuition also this
just goes as a fair warning if you're an
out-of-state student it is actually
quite expensive for public university to
study there again you see if she's a
really good school but if you're out of
state can it can hurt the pocket a
little bit I was out of state for two
years of my college career and it was so
expensive for just two years it was so
expensive this the third year and coming
on to this fourth year it's so much
drastically cheaper and I get so many
more grants so if you can become a
resident before you go to UCSD I really
really recommend that if you want to if
you want to save some serious coin my
dudes some serious but to go on a little
bit how is the math department in the cs
department at UCSD cuz that's what I'm
most familiar with math department you
end up taking a lot of theoretical
classes for my major and they're pretty
difficult but you end up learning a lot
like I feel like they make the classes
actually pretty hard but that will
really prepare you for the workforce so
sometimes you just got to get the work
done for CS classes so I only take half
my classes in the CS department I'm not
computer science and engineering so not
all my classes are in that but again
it's very challenging the cs department
has extremely extremely smart professors
also if you can tutor for them I highly
suggest you do that looks great on a
resume so if you're a freshman or gonna
be a sophomore and you've taken some CS
class I UCSD go apply to be a tutor for
one of those professors because you get
insane connections it looks amazing on a
resume
you also get paid so no real downsides
there and so far I've honestly loved
being at UCSD I don't I can't imagine
what it would be like to go to another
university I've met so many amazing
people I've met so many amazing friends
that I never regret going to UCSD and
moving to California from New Jersey
it's been an amazing decision so if
you're on the verge of it and things
that I've said kind of you know make a
little bit of fire in you I highly
suggest you know maybe going on a tour
or maybe accepting an offer if you you
got one also it's good to know that UCSC
I actually think is on the rise in terms
of prestige so every year we're just
slowly climbing up the rankings also I
didn't know this when applying but UCSD
is actually the second most to applied
to school in the country after UCLA so
it's a huge campus I think it's nearing
40,000 students so a lot of the
entry-level classes have really large
lecture halls I'm talking like 300
people plus but then the upper division
classes have smaller smaller classrooms
so if you probably if you don't want to
be in a large lecture hall not all your
classes will be like that but the
beginner ones will will definitely be
just that as a warning but again overall
want to keep this quick UCSD is not
socially dead if you try I think the
classes are great they're very
entertaining you learn a lot the
professors are awesome moat for the most
part I think the programs are great
great like I think the programs are
great the architectures there are really
interesting is very modern campus
there's the six College System wits
which makes it an interesting dynamic
gives you something extra to talk about
which college are you and which college
are you what other GES like all those
intro you know questions when you first
get to college and the only real
downsides I think is that sometimes
people complain a lot because they're
there and you know you can't really help
that the fact that it's a little bit
expensive what are you gonna do it's
College unfortunately it is expensive
those are just my thoughts quick little
video about what it's actually like
studying at UCSD as you can see this
episode's border is the Geisel library
it's pretty cool it looks like a
spaceship so that's so that's one cool
benefit of going to UCSD but again if
you go as a lot of the video consider
hitting that score up subscribe button
consider hitting that like button
consider tuning in to another future
video my name is Michael that is the new
name I'm going by I mean my name is
Michael but Mars otter used to be the
channel name I just changed it again
just more of an aesthetic choice I look
I just like it a little bit better I'll
see you guys in another
[Music]