hello namaskar this is first post and
you're watching vantage with me py
[Music]
Sharma
another attack in Pakistan this time on
the guad port Bomb Blast and a gunfight
Balo militants went after Chinese
Investments there yet again we'll bring
you the details and discuss why China
should cut its losses and exit guad
meanwhile in India it's election season
and Prime Minister Modi has two
invitations from Ukraine and Russia what
do they want can and should India brok
her peace in this war we'll discuss that
in Vietnam they'll name the third
president in one year thanks to a
massive corruption Crackdown will this
political churn hurt Vietnam's economy
and Investments India is looking to ramp
up deep sea mining to power its green
transition we'll tell you how Italian
Prime Minister Georgia Malone has
declared war on deep figes she's gone to
court after her own images were used for
pornographic
content in Argentina is the president
shock therapy helping the economy we'll
bring you the numbers in Sagal elections
after much chaos uncertainty and delays
Ms dhon steps down as CSK Captain we'll
look at the story in the brand and a man
playing chess with a neuralink brain
chip how does it work is this the future
also why is macron going viral for his
biceps yes we talking about the French
President all of that coming up ahead
the headlines
first the US urges immediate ceasefire
in Gaza at the United Nations circulates
a draft resolution this is the first
time Washington has done so since the
isra Hamas War Began earlier the US had
blocked all drafts using the word
immediate this change this change in
stance comes amid fears of a famine in
Gaza just weeks ahead of election in
India Delhi chief minister arind krial
has been arrested the enforcement
directorate arrests him in the liquor
policy case the central agency says
krial was a quote unquote conspirator in
The graft case this is the first time in
India's history that a sitting chief
minister has been
arrested in India the opposition
congress party says it has no cash for
election campaigning in February the
income tax department froze many of the
party's bank accounts Rahul Gandhi says
the party has no money to support its
candidates says it's an assault on
Democracy Indonesia's opposition
candidate calls for a fresh vote after
his election loss anise basan challenges
prooo subo's victory at the presidential
poll he claims rules rul were unfairly
changed to allow the outgoing president
Joko vid Doo's son to run as vice
president Switzerland becomes the first
developed economy to cut interest rates
it was a surprise move by the Swiss
National Bank the rate cut by a quarter
points is the first since June
2022 the SNB said inflation is likely to
stay below 2% for the foreseeable
future and Taps run dry in Johannesburg
as South Africa's largest city faces an
unpre ented Water Crisis around 6
million people live in Johannesburg
intense heat and a crumbling water
infrastructure are being blamed for this
crisis