the United States of America and for the
good of the world I'm aligned with the
world and I want to get this thing over
with you see the hatred he's got for
Putin that's very tough for me to make a
deal with that kind of hat he's got
tremendous hatred and I understand that
but I can tell you the other side isn't
exactly in love with you know him either
uh so it's not a question of alignment I
have to I'm aligned with the world I
want to get the things set i'm aligned
with
Europe I want to see if we can get this
thing done you want me to be tough I
could be tougher than any human being
you've ever seen I'd be so tough but
you're never going to get a deal that
way so that's the way it goes all one
more
questiony I would to respond to this so
look for four years in the United States
of America we had a president who stood
up at press conferences and talked tough
about Vladimir Putin and then Putin
invaded Ukraine and destroyed a
significant chunk of the country the
path to peace and the path to prosperity
is maybe engaging in diplomacy we tried
the pathway of Joe Biden of thumping our
chest and pretending that the president
of the United States's words mattered
more than the president of the United
States's actions what makes America a
good country is America engaging in
diplomacy that's what president Trump is
doing can I ask you sure yeah yeah okay
so he occupied it uh our parts big parts
of Ukraine part part of East and Crimea
uh so he occupied it on
2014
so during a lot of years I'm not
speaking about just Biden but those time
was Obama then President Obama then
president Trump then President Biden now
president Trump and God bless now
president Trump will stop him but during
2014 nobody stopped him he just occupied
and took he killed people you know what
the contact are
2014 2014 and 2015 so I was not here
yeah that's exactly right yes but during
2014 till
2022 yeah the what the situation the
same that people are been dying on the
contact line nobody stopped him you know
that we had conversations with him a lot
of conversation my bilateral
conversation and we signed with him me
like a new president in 2019 I signed
with him the deal I signed with him
macron and Merkel we sign ceasefire
ceasefire all of them told me that he
will never go we signed him guas
contract guas contract yes but after
that he broken this his fire he killed
our people and he didn't exchange
prisoners we signed the exchange of
prisoners but he didn't do it what kind
of diplomacy JD you ask speak about what
what do you what do you what do you mean
I'm talking about the kind of diplomacy
that's going to end the destruction of
your country yes but Mr President Mr
President with respect I think it's
disrespectful for you to come into the
Oval Office and try to litigate this in
front of the American Media right now
you guys are going around and forcing
conscripts to the front lines because
you have Manpower problems you should be
thanking the president for trying to
bring an end to this conflict to Ukraine
that you say what problems we have I
have been to come I've actually I've
actually watched and seen the stories
and I know what happens is you bring
people you bring them on a propaganda
tour Mr President are do you disagree
that you've had problems bringing people
into your military and do you think that
it's respectful to come to the Oval
Office of the United States of America
and attack the administration that is
trying to trying to prevent the
destruction of your country a lot of a
lot of questions let's start from the
beginning first of all during the war
everybody has problems even you but you
have nice ocean and don't feel now but
you will feel it in the future God bless
God bless God bless you will not have
War don't tell us what we're going to
feel we're trying to solve a problem
don't tell us what we're going to feel
I'm not telling you because you're in no
position to dictate that you're in no
position to dictate what we're going to
feel we're going to feel very good feel
influ we're going to feel very good and
very strong you will feel influenced
you're right now not in a very good
position you've allowed yourself to be
in a very bad position and he happens to
be right about from the very beginning
of the world you're not in a good
position you don't have the cards right
now with us you start having cards right
now you don't you're playing card you're
playing you're gambling with the lives
of millions of people you're gambling
with World War I you're gambling with
World War II and what you're doing is
very dis disrespectful to the country
this country that's back to you
far more than a lot of people said they
should have have you said thank you once
this entire meeting no in this entire
meeting have you said Thank you today
you went to Pennsylvania and campaign
for the opposition in October offer some
words of appreciation for the United
States of America and the president
who's trying to save your
country please you think that if you
will speak very loudly about the war you
he's not speaking loudly he's not
speaking loudly your country is in big
trouble can wait a minute no no you've
done a lot of talking your country is in
big trouble I know you're not winning
you're not winning this I you have a
damn good chance of coming out okay
because of us Mr President we are
staying in our country staying strong
from the very beginning of the war we've
been alone and we are thankful I said
thanks this
cabinet we gave you through this stupid
president $350 billion we gave you
military equipment and you men are brave
but they had to use our milit
if you didn't have our military
equipment if you didn't have our
military equipment this war would have
been over in two weeks in three days I
heard it from Putin in three days this
is something may in two weeks of course
yes it's going to be a very hard thing
to do business like this just say thank
you a lot of except except amican except
that there are disagreements and let's
go litigate those disagreements rather
than trying to fight it out in the
American Media when you're wrong we know
that you're wrong but you see I think
it's good for the American people to see
what's going on understand I think it's
very important that's why I kept this
going so
long you have to be thankful you don't
have the cards you're buried there your
people are dying tell you're running low
on soldiers listen you're running low on
soldiers it would be a damn good thing
and then you then you tell us I don't
want to cease fire I don't want to cease
fire I want to go and I want to this I
look if you could get a ceasefire right
now I tell you you take it so the
bullets stop Flying and you meant stop
getting killed of course we want to stop
the war but I you're saying you don't
want to CE I said to you I want a ceas
guarantees because you'll get a
ceasefire faster than I degree ask our
people about ceasefire what they think
that wasn't with me that wasn't with me
that was with a a guy named Biden who
was not a smart person that was that was
with Obama it was your pres excuse me
that was with Obama who gave you sheets
and I gave you javelins yes I gave you
the javelins to take out all those tanks
Obama gave you sheets in fact the
statement is Obama gave sheets and Trump
gave
javelins you got to be more thankful
because let me tell you you don't have
the cards with us you have the cards but
without us you don't have any cards one
more question to Mr Vice President I'm
sorry going to be a tough deal to make
um because the attitudes have to change
what if Russia breaks fire what did
Russia bre Poli talks what do you do
then I understand that it's a he
conversation right what do you saying
she's asking what if Russia breaks the
ceasefire what if they what if anything
what if a bomb drops on your head right
now okay why did they broke it I don't
know they broke it with Biden because
Biden they didn't respect him they
didn't respect Obama they respect
me let me tell you Putin went through a
hell of a lot with me he went through a
phony Witch Hunt where they used him and
Russia Russia Russia Russia you ever
hear of that deal that was a phony that
was a phony Hunter Biden Joe Biden scam
Hillary Clinton Shifty Adam shiff it was
a Democrat scam and he had to go through
that and he did go through it we didn't
end up in a war and he went through it
he was accused of all that stuff he had
nothing to do with it it came out of
Hunter Biden's bathroom it came out of
Hunter Biden's bedroom
it was disgusting and then they said oh
oh the laptop from hell was made by
Russia the 51 agents the whole thing was
a scam and he had to put up with that he
was being accused of all that stuff all
I can say is this he might have broken
deals with Obama and Bush and he might
have broken them with Biden he did maybe
maybe he didn't I don't know what
happened but he didn't break him with me
he wants to make a deal I don't know if
you can make a deal
the problem is I've empowered you to be
a tough guy and I don't think you'd be a
tough guy without the United States and
your people are very brave but you're
either going to make a deal or we're out
and if we're out you'll fight it out I
don't think it's going to be pretty but
you'll fight it out but you don't have
the cards but once we sign that deal
you're in a much better position but
you're not acting at all thankful and
that's not a nice thing I'll be honest
that's not a nice thing all right uh I
think we've seen enough what do you
think huh this is this is going to be
great television I will
say we'll see what we can do
about guys come on let