AOS first because you know krial well
how do you see this playing out do you
believe this is kajal's Moment of Truth
anti-corruption Crusader being arrested
in a corruption case can he really claim
the moral High ground or is this end
game for
krial uh see aim I think it's ironical
and it's rather tragic that the man who
has uh started a campaign and became a
messiah that fighting against the
corruption is now arrested under the
charge of corruption uh it's it's really
tragic it's it's really ironical uh
I I'm not here to to pass any judgment
about about the about about the degree
of the case and how the case has been
but this was very very imminent from the
day one I think the krial has been
wrongly advised by the legal by by the
lawyers uh the because this was never in
my opinion this was never a legal battle
this was more of a political battle and
it was from the day one it was clear
that that that the tussle between the uh
between the Amad party and the BJP will
pan out in a way that the the BJP would
like to see that the krial government in
Delhi do not don't exist or Amad party
surrenders before the krial so so when
the first summon was given if if Arin
krial has appeared before before the Ed
would have been much much better because
then if if then arrested over there then
he could have easily said that look I
I've been victimized but now in the
Delhi High Court after looking into the
evidences provided by the Ed and has not
given any stay on the query action now
and even after eight summons so Ed can
go ahead and the BJP can always say that
there is a
s the high court agrees with with the
evidences given by the given given by
the Ed so the high moral ground has gone
for a toss for him but one thing I would
like to say R very clearly that Amad
party might have a have have a plan that
they Arin krial can run the government
from the jail but that is not going to
happen and it is it is again going to be
another blunder because the daily
because central government is going to
uh to to use article 376 and say that
the government in Delhi cannot be run
according to the Constitution there is a
total constitutional breakdown a chief
minister going into the jail the
government this is Unthinkable this is
this doesn't happen a minister going to
the jail is acceptable because the chief
minister is there he reports to the
Chief Minister but if chief minister in
jail how how will you run the government
right so I think again again it's a Arin
krial have no trust in any of his
leaders ideally he would resigned would
have given charge to one of the senior
leaders of the party who could have
become the chief minister and would have
run the government now he is putting his
own own own government in danger and
that can be be be more dangerous for the
arm because because Ash let me stop you
because there are lots of angles that I
want to explore in this story one is the
legal angle what happens next legally
there's talk Sanjay Hegde of uh Arin
krial lawyers going to the Supreme Court
tonight or certainly tomorrow morning uh
pleading that this coercive action
cannot be taken but it's the prevention
of money laundering act and we've seen
under the pmla very difficult to get
bail certainly not relief is almost
impossible in most uh cases do you
believe they have a case and if so what
can be the case Sanjay that they can
have well they may have believed that
they had a case but after an arrest uh
the events have overtaken the case that
they have already filed and I saw
somebody tweeting that there was some
statement from
Dr singu that they were not going to
seek uh interim relief tonight I do I do
not know whether the so what are the
legal options what are the legal options
you think uh uh
Sanjay uh unless I'm proven wrong I
think the only legal option is to is to
now go through the procedure uh Mo move
the concern
Court in Rouse Avenue and and thereafter
uh if they get bail there fine or or
then go through go to the high court and
then the Supreme Court the Lo dra out
procedure that has applied in the case
of uh Sanjay Singh and the others may
also have to apply in this case but as
we've seen in the others they haven't
got bailed for months on end uh Manish
sodia has been in jail since February
last year Sanjay Singh since October
last year Years it'll be two years in
the case of Manish sodia so you've got
you've got all these cases 14 months in
the case of man sodia in the case of
satendra Jen it is 2 years so you've got
a long extended period possibly Behind
Bars struggling to get bail for Arin
krial Shia chhat is outside the
residence of Arin krial what are you
seeing around you sha section 144 impos
we can see pictures of Rapid action
force there tell us what you're seeing
around you
Raj rajdeep as we talk the road has been
blocked by the protesters of the amadm
party I'll ask my cameraman to show you
the situation outside the the chief
Minister's house once the news of the
cm's arrest gave away the RO the kartas
of the amadm party has now blocked the
roads to see that they cannot probably
take uh their Chief ministers away this
is the main road which will uh be
leading towards the Ed because if the
chief minister has to be brought out
this is the main road and now you see
Heavy drama
the the protesters of the party now on
the
streets not in a mood to give an answer
but this is the
situation situation R the party k is now
on the streets blocking the road Delhi
police team moving him to uh detain the
protesters this is the main road that
leads from the cm's residence towards
the uh the road that will take Arvin
krial after the arrest to the Ed
headquarters uh thank you very much
there sha we'll come keep coming back to
you getting more reactions uh from you I
also want to get uh reactions at the
moment from the am admy party guest
sidat Sharma joining us at the moment
sidat what's your first reaction to the
arrest of your leader there's much talk
of a plan B if Mr kial is behind bars as
Sanjay said not easy to get bail under
pmla will you have someone else in line
to become chief minister are you saying
there is no other leader that your party
has yeah let me at the very outset tell
you Raj that one of your colleagues uh I
think it was
prti who said that am admy party reels
in theatrics
no I didn't say theatric one second okay
well let's focus on on yes go ahead
sidat I asked you a St I'll be very
logical I'll be very logical yes what
has essentially happened today Election
Commission of India published data of
bjp's
8,250 CR illegal funds BJP desperately
needed a headline change a visha guru
turning out to be a wasi guru going into
public domain so they tried that now
what has essentially happened today
there is a small uh uh sequence of
events I'll try to be very crisp and
precise within 10 senten sentences I'll
end it arind krial challenged Ed notices
to him the court gave Ed 22nd April to
respond Ed had earlier in its public
relations press release excise named Mr
krial as the top leader of am admy party
paradoxically in court today the Ed said
that it has neither named him as an
accused nor does it want to question him
as an AAP leader going further Ed also
said today that although it can arrest
anybody any time but it has not so done
so as of now so what has become clear
what has changed in the interim now it
is very clear that there was no money
Trail found neither is arind krial and
accused now Ed had two options today
either respect the law and convince the
court on April 22nd that arind krial is
a beneficiary beneficiary or respect BJP
and arrest a constitutional figure who
is neither an accused nor a beneficiary
according to its own admission now this
was a catch 22 situation for BJP and it
has fallen into that trap arrest
arresting krial BJP at your own Peril
and it is confessing to the Panic of not
having an answer to krial model of
governance