everyone I'm sure and in this video I'm
going to walk through a super easy way
to make a portfolio website without any
coding using GitHub pages so it's about
that time of year people are graduating
graduating college maybe you're
graduating grad school and now it's time
to enter the workforce and if you're
like a lot of people you've probably
heard of data science and how data
scientists are doing all these cool
things you know they're building chat
gpts they're building models they're
using machine learning and AI to solve
business problems and create impacts and
this sounds like a really fun and
exciting field to be a part of as
someone that works in data science a big
problem for a lot of data scientists is
not so much knowing your stuff like the
technical side of things but it's the
ability to show your stuff and sell
yourself and this is just something that
you never really do When developing the
skill set to become a data scientist but
if you're trying to get a job whether
that's full-time at a company or you
want to go into freelancing or
Consulting being able to sell yourself
is a critical part of the process so one
thing that I found super helpful in
getting data science work is having a
website portfolio that employers can go
to to see my experience my projects and
just get to know me but the problem is
I'm a data scientist I can build you a
machine learning model but don't ask me
to build you a website because it's not
going to be great so I'm totally
incompetent with HTML CSS any kind of
like web dev type of stuff and if you're
a data scientist it's likely that you're
in a similar boat but lucky for us our
friend GitHub has this built-in
functionality for generating and hosting
websites completely for free without
requiring any kind of web development
experience whatsoever so GitHub Pages
makes this spinning up a website super
simple and I use this functionality a
lot in grad school in spinning up
websites for my own portfolio and for
projects that I was working on quickly
running through here what the steps are
you have these two options you can build
a website from scratch and just host it
on GitHub or you can go a much easier
route where GitHub will generate you a
website automatically from your readme
file using a package called Jekyll And
so here all you gotta do is fill out
your readme file with what you want in
your portfolio and then Jekyll will take
that text and generate a website based
on the theme that you choose not too
long ago like one two years ago this was
like really really stupid simple just
looking at this website it's a
pages.github.com just a few steps so you
go to the repository settings and then
it used to have this Theme Chooser built
in so you just say like which branch you
have your readme file in and then you
just like choose a theme and then you
have this user interface this GUI where
you could just click which theme you
wanted and it would just automatically
generate the website so when I first
wanted to make this video I'm like okay
yeah it's gonna be super simple show
people how they can make a website
completely for free free without any web
development experience whatsoever but
when I came to spin up my website this
button was not there anymore this kind
of let me down a rabbit hole trying to
figure out what happened couldn't find
anything anywhere no one's made a
YouTube video about this no one's
written a Blog about this github's
documentation was not very helpful to me
however after messing around with it for
a couple hours I finally figured it out
and now I'm gonna walk through step by
step how you can build your website
using GitHub pages and this built-in
functionality so this is what the final
product looks like so it's a really
clean design cool looking website you
have your picture here you think about
your name like whatever job you're
looking for I didn't do any kind of
coding whatsoever I just typed up a
markdown file and this was automatically
generated so I was able to throw this
together in less than 30 minutes because
a lot of the stuff it's just like copy
pasting from your LinkedIn or your
resume or something similar and so this
is the final product now I'll walk
through the steps to build this so first
step go to your GitHub Pro profile if
you don't have a GitHub profile go ahead
and make one it should be
straightforward and a good idea if
you're trying to get a job in data
science here at our GitHub profile we're
going to go ahead and click repositories
and you can see this is the example
portfolio I made this past week but
we're not going to go there we're going
to start over from scratch and click new
and then we should get a screen like
this so create a new repository
repository name so we have two options
here option one is if you want this
portfolio website name to just be your
GitHub
username.github.io you just type that in
right here so Shaheen T is my username
GitHub dot IO this will appear in the
search bar and this will be your website
name I already created a website
portfolio using this website name so
it's not going to work for me but if you
haven't done this already then it should
work for you the second option is you
can give it any repository name you like
so it could just be portfolio well it
could be data science it could be data
scientist you know whatever you want and
what's going to happen in the search bar
for example if you make your repository
name portfolio what's going to appear in
the search bar is going to be your
GitHub
username.github dot IO slash whatever
you make this repository name so if I
make a portfolio it'll be Shaheen T
github.io portfolio Okay so we'll go
ahead and name it portfolio we don't
need a description here and it's
probably best that we don't have one but
we're going to initialize our repository
with a readme file so we'll click that
this is gonna make it really quick and
easy to spin up our website I'm not
going to have a git ignore we're not
going to add a license that's not
necessary so just to recap we make our
repository name either our GitHub
username.github.io or whatever other
name that we like so just go in
portfolio here don't need a description
and just be sure to click read me and
then we're gonna create repository and
there we go so now we have the super
Bare Bones repository so we already have
a readme file here but we're going to
need to add one more file called a
config file so to do that we can just go
to add file create new file and we'll
call it
config.yml and so now that GitHub got
rid of this choose theme button in the
interface so let me go back now that
they got rid of this choose theme button
here and you can't have this super easy
user interface for picking your theme
you have to do it using this config.yaml
file and so this is actually super
simple and it's not much more difficult
than this interface so I'm going to kind
of jump ahead and this is the config
file for the example that I've already
put together we can just go ahead and
like copy paste this
so title would be at the top left corner
of the portfolio website so you can just
put your name here logo we can actually
comment this out for now because this is
going to be the relative path of the
image you want on that left hand side so
let me just go back so this is where the
title appears this logo relative path
is where this image is located in your
GitHub repo but since we're starting
fresh I'm going to comment that out if
you want to add text below here so if we
added a description to our repo it would
appear here or we can overwrite that by
manually putting a description here so
show downloads true it's just giving you
these options to download the zip the
tar or go to the GitHub so I put true
for my example portfolio if people want
to steal the code but for yours I mean
this is optional if you want people to
be able to download your code you can
make it false or just comment it out and
then finally the key thing is this theme
so instead of being able to click on the
theme we have to manually kind of type
it out using this syntax here so I went
with this Jekyll theme minimal so that's
what we're seeing here it's super Sleek
super nice I think it makes a lot of
sense for a portfolio but if you don't
like that for every reason there are a
bunch of other supported themes for
example let's click on architect and we
can see what that looks like so that
looks like this a little different
different design but again this will be
generated automatically based on your
readme file in the GitHub repository so
I'll share this link it's
pages.github.com themes and I'll share
it below if you want to explore the
other theme options okay so we have our
title we're going to have show downloads
we're going to just comment this out we
don't really need that and then we're
just left here so really right now all
you need is the title and the theme that
you want to choose you go ahead and hit
commit changes and so now you have two
files in your repository you have your
readme file and your config file and now
you can just start adding stuff in here
so like data scientist
education work experience
uh data scientists full of points here
we go big impact project one big impact
project
two let's see what else is good to have
here education your work experience what
else do I have projects yes that's
important so projects see uh and then so
on and so forth so you can start just
building some stuff out I'm just doing
this so when we spin up the website
something appears so just through
something really simple together here
and so still we just have a readme file
in this simple config.yaml file and then
the last step is to go to settings here
we're in settings then we're going to
scroll down to pages and then we have
this section here build and deployment
so here we're going to leave the source
as is we're going to deploy from a
branch and then under Branch we're just
going to hit Main and then we're going
to keep it as root because we want
GitHub pages to look at the readme file
and the config file in our root
directory and we're going to hit save so
now notice that we didn't have that
super simple
GUI to select our theme and then if you
hit add a jackal theme you get some
instructions here but I got tripped up
on theme theme name because this isn't
the right syntax here so this uh typo
here
it's uh made this like really
straightforward task like a two-hour
task for me so you can put just Minima
or minimal here you have to put Jekyll
Dash theme Dash Minima so if you were in
a similar boat and you were struggling
for hours like me it's just a simple
syntax issue and that's why the
website's not working anyway going back
so if we go here to actions we see it's
already been built but if we came back
earlier we would have seen this is like
processing and something's happening but
we built Pages was built and deployed so
if we click over here to deployment we
can hit this view deployment option here
and it'll take us to our website so oh
look at that then you can look in your
search bar what the website name is so
for me it's
shaheent.github.io portfolio and then if
we look over here we see our readme file
built out we have data scientists which
was in the title so I'll go back so we
can compare so we have our readme file
here so data scientist
education
work experience
projects EEG band discovery that looks a
little different but looks better here
on the website and then we just build it
out and so we can kind of do it on the
cooking shows where I don't walk through
the process here and just kind of jump
to the final product and so going to
this example portfolio repo here are a
few simple things to do one I'll
definitely add a assets slash image path
and then dump all the images you want to
use in your portfolio here going back
next big thing is so we'll go ahead and
edit this readme and so configuring a
readme file is a lot easier than
building a website with HTML you can
just copy paste this or clone the repo
and use this as a starting point you can
customize the structure you can start
completely from scratch whatever makes
sense for you just a couple things you
know you can add links here so this is
the standard GitHub syntax you just say
what you want the text to appear as and
then this is what the link is that
people click on if you want to add
images you put the title of whatever
image and then you put the relative path
to the image so again it's in this
assets image subdirectory and then
that's the file name and then so on and
so forth so really go to town on this
you know you can spend probably hours
just tweaking and fine-tuning it but
this is hopefully a nice jump start and
it'll get you something pretty close to
a final product okay so I rambled on a
bit at the end there but hopefully this
is helpful you know it's hard to get
that first job and bring to the data
science field so I hope this kind of
accelerates that process for you and if
you enjoyed this video please consider
liking subscribing and sharing the video
with others if you have any questions
about like building a portfolio or like
getting a job data science you know feel
free to drop those in the comment
section below I do read all the comments
and I try to respond to all the
questions that I receive and as always
thank you for your time and thanks for
watching