yo yo yo welcome to another episode and
I know what you're thinking really this
much clickbait T there's no Johnny sin
on the episode that's not true let me
introduce you to the gang today we got
writer Opie Shar op Banker op pris op
and printer op in the house along with a
very very special guest please give up
for Johnny sin AKA plumber
op God we are giving the Expressions
which happen generally in the last of
the
videos I think uh this the first time
I'm seeing you without
VPN first time Johnny I'm seeing your
face you know my if my relatives are
watching I don't know
him guys guys one second one second
Johnny hi welcome welcome to the show
nice to have glad to be here I want to
begin by asking Johnny Johnny we're
going to be watching a bunch of memes
some of them featuring you do you see
memes about yourself do they make you
laugh yes I honestly I love see memes
about myself it's great excellent you
know what guys we're going to drop
Johnny's Instagram Twitter etc etc in
the description everybody watching from
India please go drop a meme that you
think is hilarious to Johnny let him
know on his social Johnny do you watch I
I still watch some yeah besides shooting
I'm also I'm a regular Dude too so I
have so of course do you like watch your
own videos not so much my own videos and
I can't watch videos of people I know
either like my friends it has to be
like amateur videos of people I don't
know at all your I'll send you my
video link description guys I will come
across some of my old videos though that
I totally forget doing have no
recollection of and I do like to watch
those ones because I I don't remember
them at all it makes sense because I I I
read that like Michael Jordan used to
watch his games after they were done
Johnny one personal question I'm asking
for a friend uh I've been told that pawn
is all fake and 2 minutes is enough
apparently
right I've have seen a lot of your
videos and I just wanted to ask how many
times have you lost your
virginity probably not that many on
video because I I started a little bit
when I was like 26 so I was already kind
of beyond the losing virginity stage
Johnny if you are ever looking for
another actor or co-actor you know just
reach out to me I can be the husband
watches
sorry I know everyone's got like all
these hilarious questions but I have one
really serious question that I have to
ask you in in 2013 when Dallas Buyers
Club and her and gravity were fighting
for best pictures do you feel like come
spoil [ __ ] was
robbed
definitely by the way guys Johnny and us
already shot a podcast so I know a bunch
of questions that you guys have uh we've
already probably already covered them on
the podcast that's coming out on the
second Channel link should be in the
description if we have the questions out
of the way should we watch some memes I
think we should watch some memes let's
go family Strokes step step sister screw
step brother next to Blind dad imagine
being interviewed for a porno thinking
you're going to get coochie but you end
up as the role of a blind dad he never
saw it
coming husband doesn't
watches what's worse is the the guys
that have to sleep adoring the whole
scene oh yeah
oh the guy who usually sleeps do they
chitchat during Cuts or what do they do
well usually I mean if you're doing a
scene and there's extras around or
someone's pretending to sleep or be in
the room it's usually pretty funny so as
soon as you C like everybody just starts
laughing this totally happened to me not
the part where he gets knocked out or to
skinny [ __ ] but I wore a blue shirt
once yeah happened to me
also do adult stars do they pay
attention to the comments on like
PornHub like what people are saying
feedback they giving I don't know about
so much about PornHub I don't think
there's really any constructive
comments what constitutes for a
constructive piece of advice well I
think when I used to shoot for brazers a
lot they would have a comment section on
brazers and a lot of those comments I
felt they were kind of constructive The
Producers know who they like to see in
the scenes what they like to see what
they liked about the scene what they
didn't and you know the producers
performers whoever reading it could read
that and granted it's just one person's
opinion you could kind of get a a you
know who liked the scene who didn't by
the com they had the power to hire guys
or not hire guys because if enough
people complained about the guy in the
scene Brad would stop hiring them if the
comments were like I hate this guy I
hate this guy this guy sucks get rid of
this guy mostly when you watch one you
hate the guy only
so by the way guys just let you guys
know if you guys leave enough comments
then uh we can speak to Kulu separately
[Laughter]
if you have a jack off and you're like
yeah this is hot then you finish so
you're like this is sin every time
Johnny like even on set do you do you
ever get post like a like a post nut
moment where you're like what the hell
just happened Yeah you sort of snap back
into
reality money counting machine was
invented in 1920 people before
1920 I also like counting my money
naked in response to on HUB getting
censored and blocked in India a fans
there can now fully access the site
atnet not all heroes wear capes some
wear
nothing Johnny do you have a lot of
Indian fans I I yeah in Indians are my
biggest fans by far I think of any
country anytime I'm at an airport or
anywhere in the world there they know
who I am
recognize I think it's also because of
that poem we had in school Johnny Johnny
yes papa open your mouth
[Laughter]
when's the day we men are going to get a
strap on vagina Elon Musk official we're
working on
it I'll translate this CH Hitler this
means are you sad cuz you have a small
penis apparently Hitler had a small
penis too small
dictator e gross they're having sex
someone left this
comment you can hear a car honk at 337
so I don't think this girl is a real
flight attendent I think they're
actually on land in pretending godamn
this is the adult version of Santa Claus
is not
real have you ever shot a scene
pretending to be a flight attendant or
on a on a flight Johnny I don't think I
was a flight attendant but I I've
definitely flight attendants before like
in real or in Lake B
no hey Johnny are you are you a part of
the mile high club there's actually a
company in Las Vegas that's their whole
business they have a plane with a bed in
the back and you rent it basically and
they'll take you up and you can have
join the my high club how many years I
have to save money for it I cannot
believe I've been going skydiving this
whole time but I could have just stayed
in the plane and done this her deeper
me the aristocratic Elegance of the
small breasted woman bro just be horny
normal
style when you're horny but you have
your gr
tomorrow my boxers 2 seconds into
kissing
Uncle bone
nice the wide thing coming out is not
web weekend at jeffre apparently oh here
we go again here we go again I was
offered text with the 21-year-old girl
today in exchange I was supposed to
advertise some kind of bathroom cleaner
of course I declined because I'm a
person with high moral standards and
strong willpower just as strong as Ajax
the super strong bathroom cleaner now
available with scentered lemon or
vanilla
speaking of advertising by the way do
you guys know why Johnny was in India
Johnny was here to shoot a commercial
with ran Singh for bold care India's
number one Sexual Health brand for men
it is the goto solution for all men's
sexual health concerns with solutions
that truly work so guys we shot an ad
with Johnny and ranvir for bold Care
ranir by the way is also a co-founder
and he's been working with them for the
last year and a half behind the scenes
let's just check out the ad k
[Music]
J
K Johnny
[Music]
but I'll take care of
her take bold care of
her so sincere four out of 10 men are
unable to perform in bed but what most
men don't know is that it's very common
and very easy to solve order our range
of highquality Sexual Health Products on
www.b in today and get instant
results
wow ji was that the most number of
people you've ever been on set with that
that was definitely a lot of people but
the acting is really nice man the acting
is really it's great oh thank you like
it was very relatable for me the
first Johnny how was it working with
ranir ranir was awesome that was the
first time I ever met him and he was so
nice like and what I noticed is
everybody on set like admires Rand ver
and is really happy to be around Ram
anyway guys the ad's already out you
guys should go check it out and visit
Bol care.in if you want to check out the
products apparently some men can't find
the
cathedral good video I nutted but
gambling addiction is a real problem is
ruins lives if you're anybody you care
for is affected you should seek help
from a professional bro re PE post
y right there yo Mr White what the
[ __ ] breaking
bed Johnny have you played any like any
of the popular fiction characters maybe
a couple early on I did like the John
John Travolta from pop
fiction Johnny tell me something this
must be insufferable having five
comedians make sex puns the whole time
like is it is this is this like a
regular occurrence where people go like
wink wink get it get get get the joke
that I made like is it annoying after a
point not really I mean you guys are
very good and funny so I'm enjoy damn
you are good at Faking
It hello I made an account on here just
to say that he's made the worst eggs
I've ever seen couldn't concentrate
after I saw that AB Abomination Gorden
Rams her Gorden
Ram sorry Mate Chef
sorry the stetoscope isn't even in his
ears wait till you see where he puts his
thermometer
[Laughter]
if you're paying attention to that
you're not there for the right
thing Johnny what's the most you've ever
had to prepare for a character like for
a character outside of all this stuff
that you obviously had to prepare for a
night before or whatever it is it's
never really that serious sometimes
usually you don't even get a script
until you're on set that day you get a
script and for me I always just wanted
to get through the script as fast as
possible I just want to get the sex part
know I know got to memorize my lines so
that way you get done faster amazing
that Bollywood movies and B are shot in
the same
way do you do you decide like oh we do
we do this position first then we go to
this then we go to this then we go to
this choreography sometimes it depends
on the company the director some
companies like it really mapped out
other ones will just let you have sex
and they'll film it so it really just
depends I feel like it's crazy you guys
are asking these questions when we all
know that like this is the one career in
which everyone is a method actor
hey hello I came here from YouTube cuz
it are too many ads pretty good s so far
but I can't seem to find any cat videos
mostly all I can find people are
having any a big thank you all our
essential workers putting their lives on
the
line salute the
champion it must feel awesome knowing
that even James Bond hasn't won as many
disguises like and he has to kill the
girl after getting laid with
if you showed a costume ranvir's War he
would know the movie and exactly what he
was shooting like when you see this do
you remember what day this was most of
them yeah oh you'd know when they invite
you to threesome but you don't know what
to
do I know it's not a choreograph video
now sh do you sometimes stop and be like
what theck are you
doing I was having my own good time as
you can
see this girl is doing internship
also can we just appreciate like the
added chaotic imagery of the
video we'll be having sex with robots in
the next 10 years only two years away
finally that nurse will get full body
checkup
now there's like no way this video will
not get demonetized right like that's
not oh no no no oh I didn't I I thought
you were upload this on YouTube yeah I
even know you're going to put this on
YouTube later that week the same clothes
nice
try Cal down
SC calm down
scori did you know SpongeBob has 44
holes finally a worthy
opponent why do you think that crab is
crusty
how picky are you me page
120
yo I've never reached page 120 I'm like
switching genres and like I'm like no I
feel like you'd be back in the like 1985
Bo yeah yeah Max two pages or celibacy
then I think one of the best new
features on sites is after a certain
while I remember they suddenly had this
feature where if you just H over a video
it would just show you some of the
scenes like it just show you like like a
JF like that the most best technical
invention of like I think it's the best
Johnny but in the span of your career
like of course only fans was like the
one big disruption that happened
anything else that you think of that's
changed in the industry significantly
over the last couple of decades well I
know when I first got in the industry
was just transitioning into basically
internet scenes as opposed to dvdc the
internet blew the industry up basically
because now all of a sudden companies
needed a scene day three scenes a day to
to put out whereas a DVD you only shot
four or five scenes a month and then of
course the introduction of HD cameras
kind of changed everything too that
happened when I first was in I remember
my first or second year on Seth they
switched from standard definition to 720
HD and the girls were freaking out
because they were like oh no now you can
see everything VR Pawn is a new big
thing right that's something I've been
really diving into have you have you
shot any VR Pawn Johnny no haven't shot
VR porn it's very difficult for the guy
because the guy just has to lay there
basically like you're dead you can't use
your arms you can't do anything so you
just lay there the girl has to do
everything that sounds like the dream to
me to be honest
you I don't know what I sorry this this
is not blacked this is
Jagged this was sorry this was just a
random image on my phone that I I don't
know how this came here 12-year-old me
you must be 18 plus to view content yeah
Bor
1348 if you pee a nut at the same time
is that a peanut top 10 questions
science still can't
answer what [ __ ] do you juice with this
myself Johnny what do you make of like
sex toys for men you know people I get
sent them all the time and I have used a
couple of them but I mean once you use
it the first time the novelty kind of
wears off the your hand is the best
thing
respect that that's what I was going to
say you know when you're Bard off the
hand just go for the left hand it feels
different it feels like a new toy it's
completely different B up users I fear
no man but that
thing it scares
me Johnny what's the biggest screen
you've seen yourself on time sare scre
not Time
Square good movie love her facial
expressions but I can see the beginning
of the clip they're using CFL light
bulbs LED bulbs are cheap now and seef
you lot of electricity not only that but
most are rated for over 20 years just
just my two sets is this what you meant
Johnny by the constructive
criticism I mean that is your criticism
you should change your vs I did that
painting above the bed it
sucks wow wow damn fart Master Fast
Master 11 okay there are 10 other fart
Masters out
there here is a 30-day challenge for
future millionaires number one no pan
[Laughter]
has anyone of you followed the noof faab
November Johnny have you ever tried noof
fap
no couple does not have sex next to
their sleeping
friend that smoke detector is low
battery listen at 12:15 I with Mills but
I don't with fire
safety that is q for Johnny to enter as
fireman
yeah Johnny do you know what profession
you played the most or what became the
most popular I'm pretty sure the doctor
is the one I've been the most and most
popular mainly because there was a whole
doctor site would end up doing a doctor
probably like once a week and I think
I'm most known as a doctor at least when
I'm out in public everybody's like Hey
doctor that is because of expensive
healthare in us
so that's true hello everybody meet my
M wow I got to say man like watching
like adult movie memes for an hour
straight can be quite exhausting is this
the first porn meme show you've done
probably the last as
[Laughter]
well I'll be lucky if YouTube doesn't
ban my channel
now anyway this was amazing what fun and
what an honor to watch these memes with
you Johnny I hope to see you in India
again uh hopefully bold care will do
another commercial with you uh you guys
do check out check out bold care and
check out ad it should be out by now
Johnny how was that was that fun for you
yeah it was a lot of fun like you said
it was my first time in India so that
was pretty cool to see and just the
experience of being on a set I was I was
told it was the same as kind of being on
a soap opera set yeah the people and
just kind of the way it was filmed so
that was a really cool experience and I
know everybody's going to love the video
itself so everyone go check that out
guys please hit the like button do
subscribe go say hi to Johnny drop him
some memes and we will see you on the
next episode y
[Music]
[Laughter]