I just want to welcome everyone today
um I my name is Nayeli Gonzalez I am a
UCS UC San Diego alum I graduated from
Eleanor Roosevelt College in political
science with the studies in American
politics and from there I loved UC San
Diego so much that I decided to come
back and talk to you all today about our
college system and so just today
we'll be kind of be covering covering
over is
what is our agenda
um what is the college system can you
see my screen just to double check
do you do you see the agenda
no you do not see the agenda oh no okay
sorry I've been having issues with my
computer okay let's try this one more
time
give me one second
[Music]
okay
this works
I'm hoping that you can see my screen
now
Jesus I really hope you see my screen
okay
let's do screened
okay awesome so
what
UCB agenda
okay perfect all right so just going
over
um the college system so what is the
college system
um we'll talk about that I'll give you
additional resources kind of giving you
the overview to each College I will say
for UC San Diego this is very unique and
it's very special programming that we
have for our University so we want to
make sure that you are well equipped to
know how to rank each one of the
colleges on the application as well as
just get a feel to our University and
the amount of impact that we make and
the intentionality of our programming
along with that we're going to kind of
go into our College Ventures and then
like I mentioned ranking the colleges on
the UC application and if you have any
questions please feel free to include
them in the chat I'm more than happy to
answer all of these questions
now a little bit about the college
system so this is really unique to our
University we're the only UC that does
this college system and think of the
college system as a neighborhood so our
UC San Diego is situated on 1200 acres
of land which is a lot of land for those
who've ever been to the happiest place
on Earth which is Disneyland it is about
seven Disneylands including California
Adventures so you can tell there's a lot
of land for those who've ever been to a
Walmart it's about 480 Walmarts so lots
of Walmarts and lots of Disneyland
how do we make you feel like you're not
just a number I was coming for myself
and my experience I was coming from a
really small town where I knew everyone
and I was really scared to just start
college with over 33 000 undergraduate
students and so how do I feel like I am
part of a community that accepts me that
is able to take care of me and know each
other on a one-to-one basis the eight
college system is there for you so we
for those who do not know UC San Diego
is considered a top-tier research
institution so we are known for our
research we are heavy on our research
but we also you know because of all this
prestigiousness that we have here at our
University we want to still create that
approachable small community feel like I
keep mentioning so that's what we have
here at our eighth college system so
each one of the colleges provides access
to personal advising Supportive Services
and opportunities to get involved
I always like to say that you have eight
times more activities at UC San Diego
because of the eight colleges now when
you're ranking them it does not matter
what major you are part of or what major
you're interested in every major is
represented in every college so it
doesn't matter what it is you can be
part of any single one of them
so as someone who went to Eleanor
Roosevelt College in political science I
had friends who were engineers I had
friends who were scientists and friends
who were business majors so um it is
just really to create that small unique
feel something that's unique for
first-year students so those that are
that are coming in straight from high
school is that
you have your specific general education
requirements so we like to say that each
one of our colleges is unique and we
love them all equally although we do
have a lot of spirit competitions and we
like to say which one's always the best
which is usually the one that your your
college is in but it is something that's
really fun it keeps the energy going but
the only thing that's the difference is
your general education requirements and
your neighborhood and your location on
campus so we're all located almost like
those seven Disneylands all located in
one area
and we have the splits so if you are a
first year coming in you will be living
with people in your college taking the
same general education as everyone else
in your college so I remember as a
student coming in remember a small town
didn't know anyone I remember entering
my first general education class 450
person lecture and being like Oh my gosh
I'm so scared I don't know where I'm
gonna be I don't know where I'm going
and then I like look to the side and I
see someone who is who's living right
next door to me I saw someone from right
down the hall and then someone in my
building and I was like wow my entire
friend group is here so it's something
that's really nice and really fun
um and a great way to just get involved
now going into a little bit more about
the resources so if you have any
questions at the end of this and you're
like you know what I don't know how to I
don't I don't know anything else about
the colleges you know nially talked
about this but still not clicking we
have our website
admissions.ucsd.edu colleges
mycompass.ucsd.edu public and
compare.ucsd.edu we also have our
Spanish
versions for this so you can look at our
Spanish resources
um they are available to you and so for
compare.ucsd.edu the last the last
bullet point that you see there this is
for those that are interested in
learning about your four-year plan how
are you what classes do you have to take
for your specific college for your
specific major so each one you'll be
able to click on your major click on a
college Brandon college and then see all
the different courses that are listed
there if you need more information about
the colleges we do have our Triton
brochure and that's on our webpage
admissions.ucsd.edu Publications
now as you see it's a picture of Eleanor
Roosevelt College my favorite college
but
you can kind of see the breakdown as to
each one of the colleges so like I said
there are eight colleges we will start
with Ravel College which is our first
college John Muir College the Thurgood
Marshall College Earl Warren College
Eleanor Roosevelt College we have six
College seventh college and eighth
College as you can tell the last three
have not been named yet and that's
because we have a specific tradition
that happens that we need to wait and
find someone who will resemble our
specific philosophy so I'm going to
start going into them a one by one and
again if you have any questions please
put them on the chat I'm more than happy
to answer them
so going into the first college
Revell college is named after Roger
Ravel who was one of the founding
members of UC San Diego and so he wanted
to create a university where leaders of
Sciences social sciences Arts and
Humanities would come together to create
um to create research and groundbreaking
research and so the philosophy with the
specific college is where the Sciences
Arts and Humanities joined to educate
and Inspire multidisciplinary Scholars
so what this means is that a lot of the
courses are going to be looking at your
Humanities looking at mathematics
Natural Sciences social sciences Fine
Arts and foreign language and that's
something that I want to mention each
one of our colleges is unique and so the
ge's are going to look a lot different
so as you start looking and ranking you
want to look oh my gosh do I want to
take a natural science do I want to take
a heavy Math course those are things
that you want to look at for Ravel
College this specific College
all the classes that you're going to be
taking are really just to obtain the
skills and knowledge to effectively and
creatively pursue additional study for
those that are in research this is a
great opportunity to you know go beyond
the limit you are adapting to a rapidly
changing environment and so I like to
think of this college as the Renaissance
college or like the Renaissance scholar
because you're taking a little bit of
everything
to then become become an educator
I will be mentioning some of the fun
activities and traditions that happen
through each one of the colleges but as
you can see you can look down and you'll
find all of the Instagram handle on
there so you can always check out our
our posts on there and so I'll mention
each one of each of this holidays maybe
two if we do have time but one of the
fun traditions in Revel College
that I absolutely love is the watermelon
drop
now the watermelon drop it's a legend
this conspiracy theory that once upon a
time there was a professor who gave a
class on
it was like a physics chemistry class
and the professor made them take a test
and the students took this test and it
was asking if I take a watermelon up to
Yuri Hall which is one of our lecture
Halls on campus what would be the
Velocity in which it fell and the
splatter radius and so you know students
are taking this test they're like oh my
goodness let's see if we get it right
and they go to ask the professor
and they asked the professor can we
throw this watermelon is it possible
and so the professor says
yeah let's go do it so then go to Yuri
Hall and they go up the stairs because
there was no elevator up the stairs
dropped the watermelon it was like The
Gunshot heard around the world everyone
knew about this at the end of it they
said oh my goodness the watermelon drop
and so since then it's been a tradition
where we will Crown our watermelon
royalty our watermelon royalty will then
walk up the stairs to the watermelon
drop the watermelon off it'll splatter
and then we celebrate with watermelon
lollipops Watermelon candy
watermelon everything and so those are
fun activities that happen with Ravel
College
wow right
going on to the next one we have near
College so Muir College is named after
John Muir who was a conservatist as well
as an environmentalist and so um for
those that know a little bit about the
national parks you know the Muir Woods
is is one of those big ones that are in
Northern California and so John Muir
loved the woods loved learning about the
environment and was considered an
independent spirit so the philosophy
with Muir College is the independent
spirit
so you can kind of see the difference
the contrast between Ravel College which
is learning about a little little
everything to Muir College which is just
focused on one person one thing and so
we really work on your college to
prepare to lead a variety of successful
committed and self-directed life so the
classes that you'll be taking are a
little bit centered towards liberal arts
courses so you're looking at writing
social sciences a math or science course
and then two of the following three
areas Fine Arts that you get to choose
Fine Arts Humanities and a foreign
language so you can choose two of the
three
a fun activity that happens I don't know
what it is about people and UC San Diego
throwing fruits and veggies around but
we have this tradition called The
Pumpkin drop and ironically it happens
close to Halloween where we will grab
this huge pumpkin that's not like a
regular watermelon it's a huge pumpkin
and they will carve the inside of a
pumpkin add candy to it and then they
will take it we don't prawn we don't
Crown pumpkin royalty unfortunately I
had already asked a while back I wanted
to be royalty and it didn't happen but
they will take this pumpkin all hands on
deck take it to the highest Ella of the
highest elevator the highest building of
near College and drop it I've never once
seen
18 19 22 year olds run for candy it was
like it was it was a fruit pinata it was
the most fun activity I've ever seen
happen where everyone's like running for
their lives to get this candy so that's
a fun activity that happens in Weir
College
now um also I do want to highlight one
of the other activities that happens in
your college and that's mere stock your
stock is a really fun event and you'll
kind of see each one of the colleges
will have a music festival like I said
if I got to participate in the pumpkin
drop I got to see the watermelon drop I
get to be involved in all the different
activities but this isn't one this
wasn't my college that's okay remember
eight times more activities so you get
to be part of everything from your stock
this is a fun Festival Music Festival if
you're interested in photography you
like to do event planning you want to
you know get connected to people this is
a really good way to get involved
because it is student run so all of my
friends got to put in your stock I got
to drive the artists and the rappers
um from your stock one of the years so
it's a really fun way to get involved
and if you're interested in getting to
see some of the more more activities
that happens in your college you'll see
it in your college official
all right on the moving on to the next
one we have Marshall College and
Marshall College is named after third
and Marshall who was
um The prominent lawyer in the Bradley
Board of Education case which
desegregated nation schools and then
later was the United States Supreme
Court Justice and so with Marshall
College thinking about law thinking
about civil rights
the college itself is the philosophy is
the scholar and citizen so your general
education while it is in maths Natural
Sciences Fine Arts Humanities and areas
outside your major this is really
looking at the Deep analysis of the
challenges that people have faced in the
United States looking at the
contradictions as to how it shaped the
institutions social justice movements
and being able to create and give
students the necessary skills to
challenge injustices as they arrive in
the United States and in the world so
some of the Traditions that are really
fun in this um this specific College are
is Marshall palooza and for those that
don't know I did mention I was part of a
small town I like to consider it a cow
town where I would have fairs every year
and so I started to miss it towards the
Spring quarter I started missing you
know seeing all my friends go to their
fairs back home that Marshall palooza
was right in the middle
um I got both music and I got my little
fare so they had a ferris wheel a photo
booth they had um what a petting zoo so
you could pet animals it was a really
fun event that you can get involved in
so that's something that's really really
cool they also have a lot of cultural
celebrations that happen in Marshall
College
um doesn't matter what you know what
identities you identify with you could
be part of these cultural celebrations
to gain awareness which is really cool
the next college is Earl Warren College
and so Earl Warren was named after the
three-time California governor and the
Chief Justice of the United States
Supreme Court Earl Warren and um the
speaking of Chief Justice of the United
States Supreme Court he did preside over
the brown B Board of Education case
which I mentioned in the last slide and
so because he was so involved in a lot
of different things people always
wondered you know how does this person
live a life imbalance and so Earl Warren
College the philosophy there is towards
a life imbalance so it is understanding
the important contributions an
individual can make in a society so the
general education will resemble too many
minors so you get to choose outside of
your major two smaller area studies that
you want to do
um which is kind of cool because then
you get to decide what you want to
choose and then from there create your
general education a fun tradition that
happens in Earl Warren College is
Warren's Got Talent again anyone can
participate Got Talent you get to be
part of Warren's Got Talent so you get
to show off your talents there's also
Warren live concert
um where Jesse McCartney not too sure if
you all know who that is at the time
when I was younger I
he was awesome
um Lauren live super fun event they
always have cool on awesome people come
in and perform for them
and then winter at Warren land is a fun
activity where they will bring
um I think they're they're like Machines
of like fake snow and so people will go
slow like sledding and we'll have um
we'll also have like snow eye like you
can do like ice snows or like snow
angels it's really fun a really cool
activity to do
all right and so the next one is
now it's Eleanor Roosevelt college and
this is my favorite college because I
went to this college uh for those who
don't know who Eleanor Roosevelt was she
is the former first lady at the United
States but was actually the first United
States delegate to the United Nations
and so the philosophy here is developing
World citizens through scholarship
leadership and service I always like to
say the international scholar so
whatever your field of study is you get
to explore your interest and
responsibilities as a global citizen so
the core courses that you'll be taking
for the specific College are really
focused on International understanding
and cultural diversity so you'll be
taking a language class
you'll be taking
um some sort of anthropology sociology
course which is a which is really
awesome so I definitely felt that
International scholar by the end of my
time at Eleanor Roosevelt College a fun
tradition that happens is Sunday suppers
at international house so the
International House is just that it's
called ihouse International house it's
50 American students and 50
International students and so this is a
great opportunity for those that want to
get involved every cent not every Sunday
once Sunday one Sunday a month they will
host a a specific country the host is
specific culture and students will put
this on and you get to eat that specific
food from the culture they'll have music
they'll have students get involved so
you kind of get to learn a little bit
more about different cultures gain
awareness gain awareness of certain
issues that are happening in those
cultures or those Nations and so that's
a good way to get involved in that
okay and as I said we're gonna start
continuing on after Eleanor Roosevelt
College we start getting into the sixth
seventh and eighth College they haven't
been named yet just because like I said
we really focus in on who who is the
person that embodies this specific
personality are the specific specific
Philosophy for this college so sixth
College was opened in 2001 and so the
idea there is innovative interconnected
and aware so it's cultivating curious
minds to tackle the complex challenges
of our time so this is moving towards
you know we're going from 2001 now
hitting 2022 we're looking at
students who are in sixth College
graduating with the ability to engage
each other the world to find ways to
tackle complex challenges to find the
necessary tools to build a more
sustainable and Equitable future for all
so the the big course that happens here
is
um cat which is really a critical
inquiry into how art and Technology
shape and Propel cultures so like I said
it really just engaged that like
Innovative which is the the art and
Technology interconnected which would be
your cultures and being aware of all how
that all comes together a fun tradition
that happens here and as you know we're
hitting dinner time so I'm starting to
get a little hungry but the Chocolate
Festival is the most amazing activity
that happens here I got involved my
first time I couldn't I didn't know that
people would dunk mac and cheese into
chocolate fountains it's a thing I don't
know why but um The Chocolate Festival
is a fun activity that you you go in
they have chocolate everything you can
go multiple times to the chocolate
fountain you can dunk Rice Krispies you
can jump strawberries hamburgers if you
want to
um it's a really fun activity that you
get to be involved in um while you're in
six college or while you're in any other
college and again if you are interested
in getting to see more of the activities
more of the students you can always go
on to our Instagram page and see that
now going into our seventh College our
seventh college is I'm just gonna double
check on time but our seventh college is
one of our newer colleges and the
philosophy there is confronting the
confronting the challenges of a changing
Planet so now we're really focusing in
on what's what's occurring in our in our
current Society in our planet and how is
that affecting us so when it comes to
our students
we're really looking at
empowering students with the knowledge
and the necessary skills to confront the
challenges posed by our changing planet
and so you'll be seeing the a lot of the
courses look at enhancing their academic
experience through research internships
and studying abroad and this is really
again the challenges of a changing
Planet we're looking at it from every
field so it doesn't matter whether
you're stem because I know we think a
lot when it comes to changing Planet as
a stem thing no if this is into politics
into education how can we create
Solutions in every field towards this
challenge of a changing planet and
that's something that I do want to
highlight
a fun activity here
um is the sunset Soiree that happens
everyone gets together and um just like
it's a festival of just being excited
for the school year we also have Earth
week and every like it's an entire week
obviously Festival
um but they have different activities
and programming that occurs during that
time
eighth college is our engagement in
community
and so
um as you can see it's kind of it looks
kind of bland right now but that's
because if you are a rolling as a fall
2023 student you may be the first class
which is really exciting so the
philosophy with eighth college for those
that are interested it's engagement in
community so it's looking at into this
interdisciplinary approaches to solving
issues within our community so you know
we looked at International we looked
across across different fields this is
really focusing in on community so we're
looking at addressing some of the
world's most challenging issues that are
structural racism economic disparities
health and well-being because you know
we see that happening a lot more um and
more current here in in this time being
more aware of our health and well-being
we're looking at climate disruption and
a lot more things that are happening so
if you are interested you know you can
be part of this and as you can see there
are no Traditions so if you're someone
who's like I want to leave a legacy I
want to be the first person to create a
tradition for AIDS College this is your
time to shine and you get to be part of
that experience
all right going on to the next thing um
the joint ventures and we're almost done
the joint ventures these are for people
who are identified with the certain
Community
um certain identity if we do have the
African black diaspora LLC which is our
living Learning Community these are
communities that you get to be a part of
you do have to apply
it's the application's not very
difficult but you get to apply and then
you'll be living with Community within
that community so that Community can be
completely different from your college
and that's something that I do want to
know
um each one is located in different
areas but if you are really interested
in you know growing and you're like I
want to be closer to my like so the
people that I identify with then from
there you can definitely be part of the
living writing communities so we do have
the African black diaspora as I
mentioned we have the lgbtqia plus
living learning community and the rasa
resource uh Russell resource the rasa
living learning community and those are
for our latinx chicanex students
um we also have our Sprite and research
and it's experimental learning
scholarship program that you get to that
you can get part and be in part you can
get to be involved and if you're
interested we do have our first year in
transfer year experience courses and you
can take that one course and get to it
helps you transition which is a really
nice opportunity and as I mentioned
before we are so competitive we're we
always when it comes to our colleges
will get so excited and pepped up to
just show our experience show which
college is the best college so the on
Olympics is a great opportunity where
you can be part of a dance competition
you could be part of an obstacle course
or just root on and you know show
posters for your specific College
um the last thing that I do want to
mention is the Craft Center
open house in the Craft Center open
house actually it's located in sixth
college and you get as a student you
have access to the Craft Center I had
access to the Craft Center
um even as a as an admissions officer
and I got to create an art piece with
all of my friends which was really fun
okay so now going into the
nitty-gritties now when you're applying
to UC San Diego you're going to click
that box that says UC San Diego it's
going to open up a college system
ranking you get to rank it based on
preference
I always say as a student as a family
member as an admissions officer look at
your general education requirements as
you can see each one is different each
one is unique so look over this Warrior
plan see you know if you're not someone
who wants to take an entire chemistry
sequence maybe a specific College might
not be the one that you want to rank to
the top you want to look at the college
theme the College culture but I will say
that ranking does not affect your
chances of admissions or Majors we will
admit you first as you as an individual
with no say in terms of major we will
then place you into your major and will
place you into your college and so
that's something to consider for our
admissions and like I said our college
system is unique so you need to take
that into consideration
and of course if you have any other
questions when it comes to the UC San
Diego college system you can learn more
about it at the website provided down
below
now I know we have a couple of minutes
do anyone have any does anyone have any
questions
I do have a few questions that are in
the chat that I'll relate to
perfect
the first question is what is the
distinction between the eight colleges
are there more majors
what's the distinguishion between eight
colleges it's just a it's just that
neighborhood feel it's the philosophy
the general education
um they don't have every major is
represented throughout every single one
of the colleges so that's completely
separated from your academic schools so
it doesn't matter what major you're in
you can go into any single one of them
we'll you'll still get access to all the
different Majors on our campus
the second question is for admission
purposes do they consider weighted GPA
yes for admission purposes we do
consider weighted GP and we look at your
10th and 11th grade year
and then would it be more helpful to
take more honor and AP courses
um if someone likes to take challenging
courses but doesn't always
have the have an A would it be better to
take a c College Prep course and get a
name
yeah that's a great question um so we
look at you or we look at the applicant
through the local school context so
we'll be comparing your student to your
peers and so that's something to take
into consideration we do want to make
sure that our students we look at a 13
point scale and you can look that up on
our website we do have all the bullet
points with everything that we look at
um for us we look at you and this is
unique to UC San Diego it's a holistic
approach so we want to know that your
student is rigorous and is taking
rigorous coursework so
um while it is helpful and obviously any
AP honor courses is always considered a
plus for us
um it's not a necessary thing but it is
for it is considered one of those
rigorous courses we want to see you in
the context of your school
um and then
yeah I think I think that answers your
question yep and then
um another question
can you explain a little bit about the
different colleges do they apply
separately or is it just the ranking
system
that you don't have to
um you don't have to
apply you'll just be ranking them and so
we usually choose your top three choices
um and lately we've not lately but this
past year we did really well and we were
placing it within the top two which is
good so make sure that you're looking
because um it's up to you you get to
decide it has a lot to do with how you
rank them
if you want a major in engineering or
all those majors in Warren no Tyler not
all those majors are in Warren I know
that's a misconception you can be part
of any single one of the majors um it
doesn't necessarily
some students do that aren't in
engineering are in Warren College it'll
really just be based on what your
philosophy is and how you want to take
classes I had friends who are engineers
and biochemists
um and Eleanor Roosevelt college and
they did exceptionally well like
received Awards and like 4.0 GPA
throughout um college and they were in a
very heavy social sciences so really it
goes it depends on what kind of classes
you want to take so
um that's something to consider
follow up to that how do you rank the
colleges for the engineering majors yeah
look I would say go to the the uh
specific website for the four-year plans
and look at the classes that you'll have
to take of course there's some courses
especially when it comes to your GES it
being like the chemistry sequence
physics sequence
um this might be something to take into
consideration because you know you could
cancel or eliminate
um certain courses for both your GES and
your major courses so that's something
to take into consideration so I say look
at the website look through all of the
different and there's a PDF to all the
way on the bottom of our page that will
give you the entire breakdown but I
would say look at those four year plans
as well
um do you look at the 9th and 12th grade
grades for GPA for admissions yeah so
while we take into consideration your
10th and 11th grade
we are like we we look at your GPA for
10th and 11th grade but we do take into
the consideration your 9th and 12th
grade year so we want to make sure that
you're still being rigorous that you if
you had any dips or declines let's say
ninth grade you're going to do really
well
um you can always include it in the
additional comment section that's
something that I always recommend
um and just kind of talk about your the
situation that happened you know that
could have been a really difficult time
and transition so you want to include
that but yes we do look at how rigorous
you were
um your 12th grade as well
or is it possible to transfer among the
eight colleges throughout your time at
UCSD yeah great question
um so for the most part you can transfer
throughout or among those eight colleges
however on your first year or as a
transfer student they'll recommend that
you stay in your specific college for an
entire year before applying to transfer
a lot of the students that apply to
transfer they're only applying to
transfer because they realize that they
could graduate earlier at a different
college and so
um that's why the ranking it is really
important because if you you see you you
know you could possibly graduate in a
much earlier time if that's something
that you're looking at and so they'll
have you wait an entire year and then
after that that's when you get to apply
but remember think of it as a community
you're already within your community
you're taking all the classes with
people that you know already for a lot
of people they end up not transferring
and they don't end up not applying to
transfer because they've already made
all their friends at that College
and two more questions um if a student
is taking courses through dual
enrollment at a local community college
while in high school would it be in
their favor to do so
um just because it impacts the amount of
GES they will take later
yeah great question
um
so yeah students can you know you have
the opportunity to do a role
um you if you are able and you have the
resources to take communion college
courses to get them exempt I always
recommend to check assist and you can
always check with your community college
counselor assist is a great way to see
if that's transferable
um not all classes at a community
college are transferred or considered UC
transferable so as long as your student
is taking courses that are UC
transferable they'll be able to receive
credit and you know you could also
include that on your application in
terms of the college coursework you can
include that you've been that your
students been taking or your student
will be saying that they've been taking
those classes
is there a health care option as a major
and which college is that in
is there a health care major we have
over 140 Majors minors in areas of
concentration we have a list on our
website
um we do have public health which is a
good one if you're interested in
becoming a health major that's uh and we
do have specializations for that public
health I believe so so I would say check
our website and look at the 140. it's a
lot they go there's a lot of information
um but there's no specific college for
that specific major so remember the
college system is just your
neighborhoods it's each it's almost like
eight Disneylands think of them as
different worlds and they do not align
for those that are that know about Harry
Potter or our huge Harry Potter fans
think of them just like the schools
um where you know you're all eating
together but you all have their
different schools so that's something to
take in mind
okay and then um are you taking classes
with this with similar people within
your college you talked about community
and so you can just yeah so the ge's for
the most part you'll be taking obviously
you're not going to be taking it with
all a thousand students within your
college but you'll be taking with people
the general education with people in
your college so um the writing sequences
for some of those courses are just for
people in that college so yes there are
going to be some classes where you'll be
taking them with the same people I think
I started noticing that some of the
classes that I was taking for my GES and
my college
um I noticed people from those from
those classes in my political science
courses and in other courses that I
entered so you'll start seeing similar
people but um that doesn't mean that you
can't make more friends out of the
colleges because you do you will be
taking other courses it's not just going
to be like a high school class where
you're just taking classes with that
specific group
okay thank you so much snaily
um we really appreciate you taking the
time to meet with us this evening thank
you all for attending this session just
a reminder these sessions will be
available
um the recordings will be available
shortly after the event
have a great evening everyone