hi everyone so I'm looking at the
markets right now and there is massive
Panic that is going
on and all that see guys Market falling
is a part and parcel of the entire
investment Journey please figure out
whether you are an investor or a Trader
if you're a Trader then don't try to
become an investor and if you're an
investor then behave like an investor
normal fall 5 7% fall on a index if we
go to small cap midcap the fall can be
2x 3x more so be always prepared for a
20% correction in the market this is a
point that I have been making over and
over again over the last few months so
on that note it is very critical that
you protect your money if you are scared
of investing in the stock market be
asset Diversified so for example go to
the bond market I have linked some of my
favorite bonds you can go and check it
out I have also linked something called
as Market linked debenture which allows
you to hedge your portfolio so do check
out the links in the description and
comment box it will give you more idea
and now let's move over to the main
video which will teach you fundamentals
of investing in small cap and and why I
am continuing to invest in this space
despite all the turmoil that is going on
hi everyone welcome to today's video so
in the last one year large caps have
roughly given around 25% returns midap
small caps have given roughly 50% return
micro caps have given roughly 80%
returns and ab over the last few months
what has started to happen is that these
assets have started to correct somewhat
correction but there has been a massive
panic in the market now for context
large caps as of today when I'm making
this video on Thursday the large caps
have corrected by 6% the mid small caps
have corrected by 12% and micro caps
must have corrected by roughly around
25% so given all this
math the chair has come out and said
that there is a bubble which is brewing
and it is our job to curtail that bubble
so this statement wasn't taken in the
right spirit and there was massive
Mayhem that happened in the market on
Wednesday now because people are trying
to dissect whatever the C chair has said
and
which means that the point in summary is
that see if you are a fundamental
investor you understand if something is
truly overvalued or not or undervalued
or
not right so it makes my day that during
Panic days like these my students are
not panicking so that is the goal that I
have as a teacher and this is the same
spirit with which I'm going to shoot
this video that I'm going to help you
understand the opportunities in the
small camp space talk about the fact
whether it is truly overvalued or is
this a great time to buy short answer is
that it is a great time to buy I'm
putting some money in the market both in
direct equities and Via mutual fund
route so I will cover that aspect as
well very humble request that please
watch this entire analysis
because if you don't have the time come
back later this is a serious video I
only do serious videos but on a side
note here is an important message for my
mom because my mom is going to say
Market
so that is not the point I'm just lazy
so I did not get the time to go and buy
the razor from the market maybe I'll do
it tomorrow but this was an important
video to make so here I shooting it so
okay so let's first and foremost
understand whether the small cap mid Gap
space right now is overvalued bubble
bubble how do we decide it what is the
data that we'll look at so is the small
cap midcap in a bubble the short answer
is yes and also the short answer is no
why am I giving you contradictory
response because it depends on your time
Horizon and let me take you to the small
cap story so what you will see here is
that see from April of 23 you will see
that the total runup in the small cap
category and this is small cap 250 which
is an index the total runup happened to
be 82% literally in less than a year of
course on a shortterm perspective the
bubble is there I had covered it in the
past I have covered it on my member
Community I had explained it
categor but people did not understand
and all that stuff so then what happened
then came phase
two% 15% correction has already happened
this was roughly an 82% rise so yes now
the correction has started this is phase
two which has taken place so them
shortterm right so now what about
midterms so midterm we can Define
somewhere in like 3 to 5 years range and
a good time to start here will be
209 that was an exceptional
how is it that based on the 3 to 5 year
period how have the small caps performed
so okay this data you can also pick from
here and you will see that on a roughly
5e basis there has been a 200% increase
in the small cap
category context set because you know
whenever we speak about price
in% people just look at the price only
they do not understand the Dynamics
behind it or the historic pattern around
it so okay so there are two set Central
points that you need to know the first
mathematical equation is nifty 50
collection of top 50 stocks in India if
you look at the returns for this the
average kager will come out to be
somewhere around 12 to 13% okay and your
small cap mid gaps small and mid gaps un
kager cagr is almost double that of 50
and mathematically proven equation you
can go and time test it you can do back
testing and this is precisely what you
will find second equation is that nifty
50 almost double just for example 100
rupes nifty 50 will double and go to 200
rupes in roughly 4 and a half to 5 years
so that math how does it play out well
small cap midcap on a four to 5 year
basis how much returns they should give
well they should give
200% I have come out with this
mathematical formula so to
say now then what is the total return
that has happened well it comes out to
be roughly 200% on a roughly 5year basis
so this is not a bubble according to me
now different people can have different
opinions I really respect the CB
Chairman's opinion also on this topic
but I'm an investor I put my own Money
Mutual mutual fund L I'm just genuinely
telling you whatever is happening in the
market how I am looking at it now people
can differ but to cut the long story
short that from a midterm perspective
you can say that okay the small cap
category has given a lot of run up
absolute shortterm definitely overvalued
but from a midterm perspective I it is
not overvalued one at Best could say
that this is fairly overvalued right so
this is an important point that you must
understand now let me talk about long
term so if we go to longterm and
small that happened in like somewhere
around 2019
right so we have to go to midcap
category and then do proxying right so
if you go and look at the long-term data
then you can look at 7 to 10 year window
so
2014 right so let me P up 2014 and
small right so this is where we were
right so we must be somewhere here so
2014 and the total return over the last
roughly 10 year basis has been
350% for midcap
category for small cap category so this
must be a cagr of roughly like 28
29% right so is this overvalued on a
long-term basis again the short answer
is no this is not overvalued so just
chairman what is it that she is trying
to say is she trying to scare the
investors about the entire situation
that is happening I don't think that
that is the intent with which that
statement was given out people just
started reading too much into
line just look
for see guys basically what C Chairman's
Viewpoint was that mahad betting app
SC there was approximately 1100 crores
of money that was pumped into smes small
and medium Enterprises mostly in the
small cap and micro cap category now
this was a scam that recently broke out
information is still coming in and pump
and dumping and this pumping and dumping
is happening in a section of small caps
so according to my understanding what sa
chair basically tried to communicate was
there is a segment within the small cap
category
problems and that is a bubble that we
need to control that is my understanding
of whatever was said so I'm just
highlighting it now you guys take it the
way you want to take it so on top of
this let me give you some more
comforting data and let me share two
very important PE points right price to
earnings point and dat this study was
done by edel wise and basically what
they said was that if you look at the
28th Feb date and 29th Feb 2024 so
roughly and what they have done is that
they have compared the PE price to
earnings ratio right
26.83 was the p ratio 2 years back in
the midcap category and in small cap
also you can see that the P was 26 28
that's a
PE expansion there has been an EPS
expansion in both midcap and small cap
category in
fact price of a stock goes up because of
what
one so this is literally what the
mathematical formula here will be
basically what this research report is
saying PE expansion small cap and midcap
car there has been an earnings growth in
small cap and midcap companies now
whenever the stock price goes up due to
earnings growth that is sustainable
Whenever there is a p expansion of the
entire industry entire
market so as of now there is no
indicator that stuff shortterm
absolutely
yes that's a good opportunity to buy and
therefore I am also buying today I wrote
a community post also and again I keep
on encouraging all of you guys to check
out my YouTube member Community
respon say and I would encourage all of
you if you are a serious investor
consider joining the member Community
for 3 months time you yourself will see
a stark difference in the way you invest
your own money it will give you a lot of
rational commentary rational insights so
far the experience of people has been
great I'm just putting up some reviews
so you guys can check it out and
accordingly you can make a consideration
of joining it and also the membership
fee is like really really low so it's
not as if I'm charging like crazy amount
or something so you guys can definitely
check it out so with that said let's
move on to the second picture and
dat so I cannot really comment on how
true this data is at least I checked for
2024 and 2023 so the data looks reliable
but but it looks to be okay but
definitely double check it from your
side so see basically what this speaks
about is the expansion for example 2018
2017
perod just small cap 50 it was like you
know
120 you know 28 29 levels so it's not as
if that there is like massive craziness
that has happened last year we were
buying small cap midcaps heavily so this
is a range that we bought so this was a
very very good time to buy it but does
thatan no it is just that issues I don't
know why that is being created I hope
that this entire situation gets sorted
out quickly there is no structural
problem in small and midcaps now let me
start bulleting it out why that is the
case but so far I hope that you got the
overvaluation part ke is small cap
midcap overv valued undervalued fairly
valued you guys make a call I have shown
you all the relevant data right so this
is point one okay so that brings us to
point number two that okay then why is
it that the small cap stocks are falling
so aggressively okay so there are three
reasons for that one is that there are
companies or FIS more specifically for
example SEL which is one of Singapore's
biggest Telecom
company and firms likepool for example
they are cutting stake in the Indian
market so
fi selling is happening in small cap
midcap category also and as a result
they are losing value now you need to
ask a natural
question a what Quantum of money they
are selling
inia and for what reason are they doing
it
how much f are actually selling and you
can find this data here and you will see
that today in March or March 14 they
sold
roughly
4595 please note that di domestic
institutional
investors these guys are buy if you look
at monse
dat
January inch
they are still net so to
say January February March right
and is profit booking opportunity so to
say or rebalancing your portfolio
opportunity for example capital gains in
India you made
I had bought it not giving good Returns
what should I do so I will book my
losses on that stock and move on and I
will be able to somewhat offset that
capital gains I was supposed to pay this
is 100% legal many F do it family
officers do it big ticket investors do
it this is 100% legal right
and right so this is a very Advanced
point that I'm trying to teach you now
the important point to not
is all that so please do not worry about
that now related point is or a more
pertinent question that you need to ask
is that okay why are fi selling okay so
there are essentially there are many
reasons why F typically sell one
is for
example
used so they have categorically said
that we are cutting our stake in world
poool of India to offset that
debt and we are trying to settle that
debt so this is a legitimate reason no
problem second is better investment
opportunity right and our growth rate
might be like 10% on the portfolio if we
pull money out of India start a new
business maybe we can grow it at 15% so
this is called as finding better
reinvestment opportunity now this is
something that singel is doing okay so
again this is a legitimate reason third
point is valuation for
example about the factos
similarly you have Z who is selling
meta selling their own stake in the
company why is that
because and whatnot no I'm not trying to
do that think about it interally right
these are companies that are setting on
massive balance sheet Cas Force already
B sheet extremely strong debt they don't
have to repay any much they one could
argue have better reinvestment
opportunities but even those can be
pretty much attained by investing the
existing money that they already have so
they don't need to cut their stake but
they are cutting their stake for
valuation
so now the second key point that you
need to understand is regarding profit
booking profit booking in the Indian
market short term the small cap midcaps
looks heated it made made sense to book
profits if you're a short-term investor
so to say okay so this is definitely
happening and especially given the March
closing so to
say third thing is the structural
issue why so much Panic has been created
just a bubble statement right so that
was a little bit of a panic situation
mutual funds have been instructed not to
take or many mutual funds have been
instructed not to take lumsum in small
cap midcaps
if the lump suum is stopped in small cap
midcap category so the supply of funds
is going to shrink right it is going to
come down and if the supply of fund to
small cap midcap category goes down then
resultantly not so much money will be
able to immediately flow into the stock
market so structural reasons I don't
know what why these were created but
definitely panic but it's not a think
know that you know mutual funds can only
take money in small in sip format no
it's not going to happen this decision
might get reversed in another 2 3 months
or whenever the bubble so to say settles
so then comes the natural question I
have like four or five key points that
you can act upon and tomorrow I'm going
to write a detailed commentary or
starting tomorrow I will start giving
more details about the small cap midcap
Investments that I'm making I'll give
you detailed viewpoint on that this is
not a
recommendation it will just simply help
you understand more and it will give you
one perspective in the market okay so
here are a few key things that I will
try to highlight number one point please
stop panicking please stop tracking the
news all day it is much better not to
watch any news you will become more
knowledgeable not by watching anything
rather than watching the news it is just
complete BS okay so please do not keep
tracking the market all day you have
better use of your time okay so that's
one it will help you avoid Panic for
more number two thing if you are sitting
on a loss on small
capid so you can consider doing downward
averaging right now if you are on
profits already wait
consolidation
consolidation right and then you can buy
it it's okay let the market run up by 5
more per or small cap category run up by
5 more
per if you say that okay I'm a long-term
investor should I continue my sips 100%
yes okay markets from a midterm
long-term perspective as of now for
small cap category at least to me does
not look overvalued I explained you the
rational again please listen to other
people's Viewpoint also and reach your
own conclusion now let me talk about the
fundamental thesis as to why the small
cap midcaps will grow from this stage
number one there will be an interest
rate
cut large cap small cap midcaps but as
the interest rate get cut whatever the
new debt that will be issued it will
become easier for small cap midcaps to
borrow
large this will Propel the midcap small
cap category more that's part A Part B
is that there will be more mergers and
acquisition activity that will undertake
in the midcap small cap segment
interest settle right after 2 to 3 years
now that is where major chunk of m&a
activity might pick if the economy seems
to be okay lot of Dynamics will go into
that but to cut the long story short big
big companies are going to buy smaller
middle players who survive this termoil
and I think there have been a bunch of
good small cap midcap companies that
have been able to survive this turmoil
so I still feel that small cap midcap
category is going to generate a lot of
returns for investors you just need to
be sensible which brings me to the final
point please pick companies in the small
cap midcap categories that are growing
their revenues that are in an industry
that is growing that has been able to
handle its debt really well please do
not go by stock
recommendations please understand these
basic basic points it's going to be
absolutely critical
now still you want to invest but you're
a little bit scared then the safest
asset so to
say is flexi Gap fund so you can go and
buy Flex Gap right
now that will grow at a faster rate so
to say and you know whenever the
circumstances are better then I'm sure
that mutual fund managers will also
switch to a better segment of growth so
on that note now I wanted to discuss
specific small cap midcap stocks but
unfortunately I have run out of time so
what I'm going to do is that I'm going
to make a part two of this video or I'm
going to start giving commentary from
tomorrow so with that said I'll close
out the video I hope you enjoyed it do
press the like button and I'll see you
soon