what you see behind me is the world's
strictest and largest prison this Mega
prison has a capacity of 40,000
prisoners here are the most unsafe
people you can even imagine how many
people's lives have you ended is it five
or 10 how many more than 50 MS13 and
many other gangs these are animals these
aren't people they're Psychopaths
sociopaths the kind of people we have
here we are about to see the burst of
the burst welcome to C the world's
largest prison by capacity in El Vador
which was constructed to imprison the
highest profile criminals those who
enter this prison are destined never to
leave alive there's no way out how you
going to come out of this the reason why
this small country of 6 million needs
the largest prison is the
gangs once dominating the country these
gangs faced a dramatic Crackdown
starting in March
2022 under President naib bu's
Administration over 70,000 individuals
about 2% of the country's adult
population were arrested within just 16
months buses transported thousands of
change gang members to seot in a tightly
coordinated nighttime
operation sitting one behind the other
heads lowered they looked like a single
Mass surrounded by armed guards none of
them dared to resist
commands their life has changed in a day
in this docu umentary we will interview
one of them one of the most ruthless
gang leaders known by the nickname
Psycho 10 minutes you only have 10
minutes built in 2022 this massive
prison is made up of eight separate
modules spread over 410 acres of land
each pair of modules is enclosed by two
separate 3 m High walls with razor wire
the entire facility is surrounded by a
towering 9 M high wall with a 3 m High
electric fence carrying 15,000 volts 19
Watchtower are ensuring nothing escapes
notice the entire design doesn't just
prevent Escape it erases the very idea
of it hello hello we have permission
from the
presidency the solders stopped us we're
hoping this will be the last checkpoint
the Jammers blocked all signals within a
2 km radius of secot completely cutting
off all communication over 600 soldiers
work only to secure the
perimeter we are going to leave all of
our belongings here before entering the
prison we will only carry our cameras
and microphones that's it pass
slowly look at the
camera the body SC I forgot my wedding
ring off well that needs to be put away
over there this high capacity X-Ray
Scanner even shows bones and internal
organs it's mainly used to scan
newcomers ensuring no one tries to sneak
in anything forbidden on their body
before entering the inmates used to
swallow some objects
or they would try to bring them inag or
micro SD memory cards microchips and not
only that even phone charges another
thorough body search has been
conducted take off your
shoes they even inspected inside our
socks it took us around 1 hour just to
pass through security even though we
were invited as media after months of
applying guards are wearing masks
because they're doing a risky job here
so if they get identified it might be
riskier for them to go to town centers
because these gangs they have a lot of
connections so they have to keep their
identity secret why don't you wear a
mask I have to talk to them face to face
looking them in the eye they already
know who I am we're in the registration
room this area is for inmates only when
a criminal is captured on the street
they don't carry ID or give their real
name that's why their fingerprints and
photographs are taken here to enroll in
the
system once they become a permanent part
of seot the inmates lose all contact
with loved ones for the rest of their
lives as family visits are strictly
forbidden it's also important to note
that a small number of innocent people
were mistakenly imprisoned during the
big Crackdown because of the no contact
policy their families have no idea where
they are or if they are still alive
through some this documentary could be
their first chance to see a missing
loved one before entering the modules
where the inmates are we visit the
Armory of the prison this section is on
must in case of possible riots and these
convicts are the most unsafe people on
Earth the type of firearm we use is a
t65 rifle similar to the M16
rifle we also have this other firearm
which is a 12 gauge
shotgun a 6our rifle allows us to
maneuver in spaces that are too tight to
move whenever criminals are arrested and
dragged to the bus various cuffs and
chains are used to restrict their
movements and minimize the risk of of
harm to officers has there ever been a
riot int so far there have been No
Escape attempts we have the worst of the
worst within criminal organizations here
the riot gear consists of a head
protection a face shield neck protection
an anti-t truma vest leg protectors shin
guards and of course a
shield generally in the
prisons inmates invent any kind of
handmade weapon like all or knives they
are fully protected you can see how
protects his feet since this prison is
so large we have to hop on this
bus we are entering the module area to
keep the country safe 1,000 staff
members work inside SE it is impossible
but let's just imagine that an inmate
get out of the Fortress these Pebbles
that you see are put here intentionally
because when they walk on these Pebbles
it works like an alarm system it makes a
noise they cannot sneak away have they
tried to escape no did they try
difficult because they would have to go
through a series of security Rings seot
was built with its own infrastructure in
an isolated area including an electrical
and sewage system to prevent external
interference in case of an electricity
cut or water supply issue the systemns
and power plants will maintain
operations for up to a week I'm so
excited we're going to be face to face
with the most dangerous criminals in the
world it is pretty tense we are entering
one of the modules now you are seeing
the third and fourth modules next to
each other an offender who enters one of
these buildings never exits through
these
doors in a few steps we'll be surrounded
by more than 2,500
inmates it's like stepping in the middle
of Controlled Chaos
[Music]
this is so intense their eyes are all on
me following my every step getting an
eye contact with
them there are there are so many of
them and
speechless I can't help but feel honees
all of them wear white shirts shorts and
slippers they don't have any other
belongings most are barely out of their
early 20s and convicted of serious
offenses even the most most infamous
criminals in history have an average of
20 to 30 proven victims but here some of
the inmates are responsible for hundreds
of innocent people's lives can I ask the
inmates something no no no if you have
any questions I can answer them for you
if they try to communicate with me now
what are you going to do I'm not going
to allow them they know from them that
subsequently there may be a penalty for
not abiding by an instruction I'm
curious to know which of these group
leaders I'll be interviewing it is
forbidden for us to pass this year
yellow line because these are one of the
most dangerous human beings on Earth
without the bars between us everyone
knows exactly what could happen there
are 32 cells in every one of the eight
modules making up the mega prison each
cell holds around 80 inmates but the
number can go as high as 150 despite not
being at full capacity the inmates only
have .5 squ M of personal space each
prisoners do not have any ventilation
rights or Courtyards to walk outside
their cell each inmate here have been
given one of the longest sentences you
can even imagine in your life the only
thing that doesn't change that all these
inmates will never get outside they will
never see sunlight the only people are
authorized to get inside and outside are
the personnel and sometimes media like
us they will never ever leave this
building if you see their look you can
see the emptiness in their soul they
don't have any hope towards future they
look very robotic their life is so
monotone this open corner is their
toilet
area they have like two toilets for 80
inmates it's literally humiliating these
inmates like their whole confidence is
disciplined here the same place where
they use the toilet is also where they
take showers to clean themselves they
use plastic Dippers in a single shared
Basin there's no running water in the
cells so the prisoners have to rely on
one blue barrel for drinking water where
they sleep is these metal bunks no
pillow no mattress each prisoner
receives just the Bare Essentials a
white sheet a uniform socks slippers and
a towel that's it the prisoners spend
their entire days on their four-level
bunk beds they have stacked tightly like
items stored in a warehouse as part of
hygiene in order inmates are shaved
every 2 weeks by Personnel long hair or
beards aren't just unhygienic they can
also hide sharp objects let's take a
look take off your shirt and line up
here now they are taking their shirts
off
these inmates were once part of the MS13
and bario 18 gangs which controlled the
neighborhoods of El Salvador these two
rival gangs spent years extorting money
from locals and causing great suffering
to Salvadorans there is bar 18 MS13
gangs all together in one cell that's
right just like that the entire module
is the same they all live like this
outside entering each other's
neighborhood could mean being torn apart
yet here they are side by side until
their last breath how do they live
without attacking one another they have
to learn how to live together here they
are in a prison they are not on the
street most of the inmates have tattoos
covering their entire bodies even
including their faces showing their
loyalty structure for MS13 tattoos often
include initial letters or the number 13
members of the other gang use symbols
like 18 or 666 which add up to 18 and
symbolize the devil or they use Roman
numerals having gang tattoos on one's
face is a clear sign that they are one
of the most ruthless and high ranking
members of the organization crossing
paths with such a person on the street
is the same as staring death in the face
a spiderweb tattoo represents being
caught in the web of justice and serving
a long prison sentence the devil Horn's
tattoo was a dark symbol that represents
these individuals worship of the devil
some even claim that They carried out
their actions under the devil's command
a teardrop tattoo signifies that the
person has ended someone's life the
number of teardrops indicates how many
lives they've taken if there are three
teardrops it suggests that the tattoos's
owner has taken so many lives that
they've lost count with the phrase laugh
now cry later these masks or clown
tattoos send a clear message stay strong
in the face of hardship now and deal
with the consequences later are all
these people truly bad they're on
another level high-profile criminals who
will never change their
mentality if you look at the upside
there's a catwalk area guards can
consistently watch over the inmates from
this elevated spot above the cells if
anything suspicious occurs they will
intervene while an extensive network of
cameras observes every corner 24/7
ensuring nothing goes unnoticed the
modules are kept lit all day and night
for monitoring When the Sun Goes Down
the Lights stay on all the time they are
constantly being observed I think this
is one of the hardest things when they
try to sleep they use their towels and
cover their eyes to block the light
preacher here is teaching some of the
important lessons from the Bible to the
inmates they're doing physical exercise
over here there's the trainer there this
is the only time these inmates get out
of their celles these activities take
place for a total of 1 hour per week
under the watch of armed guards for the
rest of the time they are locked inside
they used to control the streets now
they can't even take a step with their
free will it's a rotating schedule
there's not enough space so they can't
all go out on the same day has there
ever been a CTIC incident when the IM
were outside of their cells so far
nothing whenever we focus the camera on
a cell we often catch a prisoner
silently mouthing words even Behind Bars
gang members attempt to send orders to
the outside this prisoner was doing just
that but we censored him to block the
message despite the Crackdown these
groups still hold significant power
outside rumors suggest they have plans
for taking Revenge by targeting innocent
people but in response the authorities
threatened to impose even harsher
measures on impr prison's members if
they do that there won't even be one
meal in prison I swear to God they won't
eat a grain of rice let's see how long
their homeb last inside here they get
three meal times breakfast lunch and
dinner breakfast is usually beans and
rice for lunch they get white rice and
pasta and dinner's pretty much the same
the only thing that changes is the
drink there's no nutritious food like
chicken or meat this is the lunch
it's rice pasta and two tortillas does
the menu vary from day to day no is it
the same every day it's always the same
it's for freshman
okay this a sugary drink I'm going to
taste it for myself inmates must eat
with their hands and clean their plates
before returning them with a diet
lacking in protein many likely suffer
from nutritional deficiencies before
starting our interview with an inmate I
want to show you one more place that is
even more extreme than what you've seen
so
far here we are in the isolation cell
area if inmates break a rule they can be
sent to these isolation cells according
to the
legislation the law gives me the right
to keep the prisoners in isolation for
up to 15 days these cells have sealed
doors through this grid I can see them
and identify who's
inside we serve food here and we also
use this space to put handcuffs on them
before opening the door to move them
from here to their
cell welcome to the isolation cell if an
inmate misbehaves this is where he ends
up he won't know the time or how much
longer he'll be kept inside for days or
even weeks he sleeps on this concrete
bed without ever leaving they are cut
off from the outside world left alone
with nothing but their
thoughts this is where they Supply their
water there's a water bin here they take
their water here and this is where they
pee the Basin for drinking water in the
toilets are located side by side the
toilet looks recently used and dirty
suggesting that this cell has recently
been used the only light they have is
this little hole that barely lets the
sunshine in this openness is also the
sole source of fresh
air what is the most challenging thing
about isolation room according to you
inside you don't even see your hands so
when someone is isolated it is necessary
for them to have something a book
anything to keep their mind clear but
here they don't have access to any of
that no matter how tough a criminal is
this kind of isolation breaks them this
is necessary for the type of offenders
that we have here people who once played
God by deciding who would live and who
wouldn't live deserve the worst
punishment we don't show them Mercy they
can ask for forgiveness and may God
forgive them but here Justice must be
served for so many victims and it's the
least they deserve we're going to
interview the inmate known as psycho he
has a 34-year criminal history and has
spent the last 25 years as a high
ranking member of an organization 10
minutes you only have 10 minutes 12
guards are barely enough to ensure the
safety around this inmate remove the
mask what is your name my name is Marvin
Ernesto metano Vasquez how old are you
I'm 41 years old you don't look 41 you
look younger like 35 that's a good thing
that you told me cuz I I feel old can I
see your
tattoos M 13 when did you join this
crime organization in 2004 but I started
my criminal record since I was 11 years
old how did you first become involved
when somebody's born with just a mom and
the mom is working you look for the
streets you look for somebody to help
you out I said W my mom's poor I need
some shoes I need some clothes and I
started robbing then I need a father
figure cuz I didn't grow up with my
father and then I I looked the group of
gangs then I did a a side and I came
right here to a Salvador trying to
change my life but I think that there
more gangs right here and I started
doing the same thing I did Upstate and I
got locked up I always been one of them
persons that wanted to accomplish the
things that they put in their mind and I
accomplished everything I had to do
right here but I'm right here this is
how the devil pays the people yeah is it
true that to join this crime
organization you need to end someone's
life yeah but but the first one must be
one of your relatives right yeah yeah
cuz you got to gain territory for your
gang I lost my mom my dad my son
everything right here because of the
gangs by when I could be with my family
hey Upstate the United States a better
life but you know we took wrong
decisions and this is the cause of this
that's why I tell the youth hey go to
school listen to your mom listen to your
dad don't live this life that we live
right here there's no way out how many
people's lives ended is it five or 10
how many no if you talk about what you
used to do in the jails after it
probably get get a few more than
[Music]
50 you got to do it sometimes how did
you become cold blooded and merciless in
time I can't really respond you with
that question how do you feel about not
seeing your family forever since you're
inout I feel bad cuz I I seen my son the
the last time when he was 5 years old
and I'm I'm he's 21 years old right now
I want to see him I want to tell him hey
don't do the same things that your dad
did look for a good life people who have
fallen Victim Because of You will never
see their loved ones again you will also
never see your family how do you cope
with emotions like missing someone I
feel bad sometimes like I tell you I lay
down on my bed and I think a lot of
things and I sometimes I cry what is
your motivation to stay alive here to
one day change my life life and look for
God in my life and and I tell God hey
forgive me forgive me cuz I did some
things
okay finally we see the sunlight
honestly seat is a place you would never
wish to end up in even as a visitor but
for the people who victimize Salvadorans
it is now their forever home these
criminals took the innocent people's
right to live and now they're paying for
it the Salvadorian government's message
is clear crime is no longer tolerated
and the punishment is severe El Salvador
once had the highest rate of lives loss
due to widespread chaos during its peak
104 out of every 100,000 people lost
their lives in a single year previous
administrations agreed to atuse with
these groups but this couldn't bring
lasting order although the current
government's methods are controversial
by 2023 the number dramatically dropped
to 2.4 per 100,000 people placing Al
Salvador among the safest countries in
the world for the first time so far the
results are undeniable peace has
returned to the neighborhoods but what
about those who were wrongfully
imprisoned is it true Justice or way to
control chaos are we seeing a lasting
solution or just a temporary fix for now
the answer remains unclear and the world
continues to watch thank you for
watching this documentary see you in the
next one don't forget to subscribe rui
chenet was here