Minister by my colleague business the
television's managing editor sidat
zarabi ma'am I want to start by getting
you to talk about the comparism between
this interim budget and the last couple
of interm budgets which happened just
before the announcement of Elections
there was always a lot of populism you
chose to stay away from that are you
deliberately sending out a message that
I'll be back in July and I'll do what I
need to at that time I don't need to do
anything right
now well the message about us coming
back is the the way in which you all
reporting about things how the
government has performed how in the last
10 years those promises which were given
were
fulfilled
and on the ground actually people are
actually speaking about the work of this
government and not a whisper of
corruption so that's the message which
people are themselves giving Which you
the media are carrying but I've taken
the interim budget as an interim
budget and asked asking for a w on
account just to keep the business going
of the
government is what it is meant for have
done only that when you do a temperature
check of the Indian economy what is it
that gives you the greatest reason for
optimism and what is it that's giving
you nightmare or the most concern at
this
moment
um the optimism bit is because the power
of the word of
mouth people people who have benefited
from government's
promises are speaking about it
themselves and they are cross the board
they don't belong to any one section one
region one state one language one
religion they are all
over and that gives trust in people's
mind people trust you will probably
trust your friends your neighbors your
peers your colleagues rather than
trusting a political leader by Nature
India is like that and therefore when
people say yes I've also got a house
here's the paper I've got the gas
connection what has come to my uh
tap and my sons are or daughters are
getting skills they are getting
recruited they going into you know Arm
Forces Med colleges signic schools so
that power of that word of mouth among
beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries
is the one which makes me feel that
people realize this is a govern prom
which promises and delivers and the
prime minister is absolutely seized of
everything that is happening in the
ground that is one confidence the other
confidence try as they may the
opposition in the their rulle states as
well have not matched this kind of
performance and top it all with no one
getting any personal Peary
benefit not one scandal in 10
years the image of India fragile five
policy paralysis corruption at every
level changed in 10
years you think people of India don't
recognize that so that's the confidence
Challenge and worry concerns you yeah
Challenge and worry more external Wars
abroad you know uncertainty in the red
sea fish Marine Lines getting
affected Transportation Supply chain
disruptions those I think in the last 3
4 years if you can say with sense of
confidence uncertainty has become the
rule of the game we have to live with it
we have to factor in for it since you
speak about living with uncertainty and
factoring it in 10 years of modomics and
you said no scandals why the need for a
white paper uh on the state of the
economy that the Modi government
inherited why now
prime minister himself has spoken about
in 2015 or 16 he said then that there
were a lot of people suggesting to him
that he'd come out with a white paper
and he chose not to do it
then and he explained the reasons as was
available to him at that time he said no
look I'll put my nation first I don't
want to come up with a white paper which
is going to reveal all that was left for
us to inherit and that would only affect
the investors confidence it can affect
the trust that the government the people
of India have in India's own
institutions so it's not the best thing
for me to do now so I won't do it now
but after 10 full
years and after 10 full years of us very
clearly delivering on our
promises taking Indian economy closer to
being the third largest economy
realizing it probably within a year or
two after we come back let us
say we are now in a safe position to say
to the people of India this is exactly
what we inherited this is what it took
for us to correct it and in 10 years if
this is the level of effort we've put
not just to restore it but to take it to
that
height it is this kind of a leadership
and decision making which we've given
you in the last 10 years now that you
oted us so right time to bring it in I
would think' there's a lot of
conversation about what's going right I
want to use this opportunity to talk
about a couple of areas of concern one
is on Rural consumption I was reading
the earnings reports of several of these
fmcg companies which seem to suggest
depending on which company you look at
at least a 20 to 30% decline in rural
consumption a lot of left leaning
economists use this to suggest that
there is a high level of rural distress
as Finance Minister how do you look at
this concern that uh in the rural sector
when it comes to consumption a lot of
companies are actually seeing distress
how much of a concern is that for you
and how are you hoping to address
this I wouldn't just put them aside I
wouldn't say no I'm not worried about it
and I wouldn't say that their studies
are worth nothing no not at all I would
certainly give it my best of attention
but I'm not sure it is that 20 30% that
you're talking about fmcb companies do
have um metrics which we need to take
seriously because it indicates quick
buying of durable goods but equally it
is not correct to say that
rural distress is continuing because I
think there's a lot of shift in the way
in which rural economy is now going
through
there's a lot of shift because money is
going in in the name of you know one or
the other scheme to every family in the
rural area I would dare say this that
there is no family left without getting
at least one or the other scheme of the
government so those who deserve it rural
economy is also looking at a changing
Paradigm in
agriculture a lot of uh you know
commercial crops are coming in the
linkages through the E National
agriculture Market even today there are
media reports about how between
different markets in different regions
better rate is
actualized so farmers are now seeing
potential for them to move to different
crops the emphasis given to the Shri and
the millets the emphasis given to
Horticulture is finding newer markets
within their locality the Urban centers
close by are benefiting by the
Horticulture reaching them locally and
in reasonable price so really it's no
longer wheat and rice economy it is a
lot more of horticulture Fisheries
livestock is gaining a lot of attention
also supported by the policy of the
government SGS which are now into value
addition in food and also with
mechanization of
Agriculture which is bringing the
monotony down not throwing people
out themselves are becoming centers for
business agriculture let's say a
farmer's son or daughter sets up a
business for Lending Leasing and hiring
out
equipments companies are coming in Into
The Villages saying we not all of them
want tractors but hes trying to deweed
every such small agricultural equipment
is now Finding Traction for which their
their sons and daughters themselves are
setting up businesses so there's a lot
happening in rural areas Finance
Minister you uh gave a very interesting
uh definition of secularism and you
linked it to saturation of the
availability of all government schemes
expand on that is that now uh the new
definition that the Modi government is
pushing out for secularism because it's
a word that has drawn a lot of debate in
the past that's right and uh not just in
24 elections even in 2019
by which time uila had reached good
Dimensions you had people belonging to
different communities particularly when
you talk of glass gas cylinders only
women come forward to talk about it men
think it doesn't matter to them because
ultimately the food has reach the table
how does it matter whether it is being
cooked in gas or anything else so men
tend to talk less about it women come
out to say yes I'm benefiting with a gas
cylinder people who came out to say that
Ula has helped me to bring a clean air
in my kitchen and I'm more efficient in
getting my food done belong to all
communities even at that time it was
observed by media observed by political
observers that Wala scheme's
implementation has proven that every
eligible person gets it not just the
first charge going to one particular
section as it was narrated once earlier
by a prime minister
so that litmus test of te secularism
actually in
action has been felt even in 2019 now
it's felt even more so if secularism has
to be practiced you don't need to Pander
to religious beliefs if you're able to
across the board give everybody
everything you are indifferent to the
person's Faith or religion but making
sure he or she is as good as the other
next
door that's action secularism in action
ma'am let's spend a moment on household
savings which have been one of the
pillars of the Indian economy in Years
Gone by and now household savings are
set to be at a five decad low uh at 5.1%
how how are you looking at the aspect of
Indian households seeming to save much
lesser than they have in past decades
and is that something that you're okay
with is that something that
concerns conclusion you can arrive
at households saving lesser than before
no because as much as you talk about
small savings and quote numbers on it
the only option that small saving or
people in middle classes had for saving
their money and with some confidence was
to put it in let's say post office
savings account which continues which is
good enough which can continue any
longer but your also noticing since
2020 that because of Greater
transparency and greater availability of
information people are able to see which
are those performing companies they're
not even going through the rout of
mutual funds to understand how stock
market performs small saving in the name
of retail funding is coming into the
stock markets and coming through demat
accounts which are unique so I'm not
talking about the same person doing five
types of Investments new demat accounts
unique demat accounts tell you probably
many things which went to post offices
came are coming now into the market so
people are finding newer revenues to
save and probably better returns are
acred in those routs since we speaking
about the markets uh the stock market
regulator recently put out a word of
caution with regard to uh you know a lot
of the trades that are happening are
happening in trading in in the
derivatives segment in F
Ando do you share that note of concern
with regard to the nature of how people
are trading in the markets that was uh
much higher than what it is now I would
think my concern that is much higher
earlier than it is now because there's a
lot of awareness being built by
Regulators to say that uh derivatives
and dealing in fno as you said can have
involve high risk and many people burned
their fingers uh by starting to operate
there young people who with the first
time entrance also burnt their fingers
so there was a lot of discussion about
it in one of our FS DC meetings uh
Regulators are now building a lot of
awareness and uh I would think that
caution has come into play now Finance
Minister how are you you've been chiding
India Inc to go out and invest to find
the strength of Hanuman and to invest in
the India story and for various reasons
the kind of secular investment cycle
that you were hoping for hasn't really
kick started you can see some green
shoots in some sectors but it's not an
overall investment cycle uh how are you
viewing because I I we were together at
the rashtrapati bav and you were telling
a member of India Inc to go out and
invest even further how are you looking
at India Inc in several sectors still
being in waitand watch mode assessing
but not committing fully to invest at
this moment is that now beginning to get
a little frustrating for you how are you
looking at investment appetite and
actual Investments apart from just the
talk but uh I would equally say that in
those Sunrise sectors which for which
we've announced PL schemes and so
on you find private investment coming in
and coming in in significant numbers so
I really cannot say now as I said
earlier that hey you are anuma Hanuman
you start playing it is happening now
and I would think they are very clear in
their heads that their Investments now
will probably go through the newest
sectors and they may want to build
capacities add capacities to the
existing areas of activity but many of
them are now looking at prospects in the
newer areas so it is happening but
happening much more in the newer Sunrise
sectors Finance Minister U two key
instruments of the government which have
focused on getting new manufacturing and
private investment the point that was
just made one of those schemes of 2019
the end date is 31st March 2024 the
concessional 15% rate for new
manufacturing uh companies along with
that you've given a host of PL schemes
two parts to the question one do you see
the need for continuing with that lower
15% rate eventually perhaps in the full
budget and second uh does p scheme need
to expand or at some point of time the
government will say we supported you as
much as we could now go on and do it on
your
own uh the answer to your second
question is not uh we've done it for a
few years so stop it now it's more to
ensure that India gets that lead in
those sectors in the sunrise areas so I
wouldn't time it by saying I've done it
for 2 years shut shop now that that will
not be my Approach my Approach would be
is it really getting rooted in India is
it sustainable and are are these
industries really you know taking off so
those will be my measure before I take a
call on that so I wouldn't rush to say
I've done it for 2 years the other is
about uh
the reduced tax
rates as I said for many other things
this interim budget was not the time for
me to take a call on that so I've not
taken a call one of the critics we've
heard from the opposition finance
minister is that when it comes to social
sector because the percentage of
government outlays on education on
health has come down as a percentage of
our GDP in the years that this
government has been on power they level
the acquisition that while you're very
focused on public infrastructure uh that
the amount of money that should be set
aside for education and for healthcare
isn't adequate and even the outlays that
are being made are not being fully spent
we're actually spending lesser than we
provision for how do you look at this on
the outlay not getting spent I may not
be the best person to answer I'll be
concerned as to why the outlays are not
getting spent but it'll be the
Departments and in particularly health
and education States also have a role it
is a concurrent uh list of items that
we're talking about when we talk about
education and health so it will depend
on how much absorption Happ happens in
the states how much the department is
able to push and so on so those factors
are totally out of my realm but I can
understand where they are and probably a
longer discussion can happen only on
those two uh issues um it's also not
right to measure expenditure on
education and health as being adequate
or not adequate it can never be adequate
I'll concede that any amount that I put
for Education will still think I mean
you'll think I'll think anybody will
feel more can be added and yes more can
be added there cannot be a second
thought on that but the fact remains
as I said also for one question earlier
somewhere else about capital expenditure
this time being not 30% in increase only
11%
increase there's after all a element
which is called absorption capacity you
can put ton loads of money somewhere and
the in the capex our condition was you
use it within 12 months I'll give you
next year but use what I've given you
now fully this year the absorption
capacity element makes many of them who
genuinely want to spend it after a point
not able to throttle it down within 12
months they would need 13 14 15th month
also but I'm sorry within 12 month it
hasn't happened fully so is the case
with education and health you may want
to put any number into the
outlet but eventually unless there's a
properly fitted Hospital you're not
going to be able to give additional
training to the staff
and spend money on that unless you have
more medical seats available you're not
going to have enough doctors coming into
the hospitals unless again it is spread
all over the country that's why at one
point in time I remember during my atbar
announcements we said no longer are we
looking at District level hospital now
it has to go to the Block Level so there
are levels and levels to which we need
to now pad with more efforts and
resources so it's not not going to
happen within one year suppose I say I'm
giving more enough this year of the
GDP are they in a position to absorbed
the first layer is being set second
third and so on I can't STP at the fifth
level when these have not been done
Finance Minister since we are speaking
about allocations um explain the
philosophy on the defense allocation
you've been defense minister you've been
Commerce Minister and defense still
about 6 lakh CR the highest allocation
but some people say it's still 4 4.72%
year- on-year growth uh earlier than
that in the previous Financial year
there was a substantial increase what's
the philosophy behind the defense budget
allocation first of all defense and
their procurement you know it coming
from a defense background uh your friend
Rahul will know it we shared that
background yes the
long-term perspective planning that the
defense has is really long time and they
go on fitting every year to towards
achieving that long-term
goal and for each year it's not a
proportionate allocation towards that
long term sometime it's more sometimes
it's less sometimes it's just about all
right and so on so it is the end goal
that your long-term perspective plan
which has to be achieved and in the
process allocations keep going up and
down in order that we get a complete
picture of how money is got to be
allocated for defense is where the
division happens pensions and salaries
the revenue is one account we don't
still about 52% of the yeah we don't we
don't include that it may be 52% of the
Total Defense budget no that's that's a
committed one and we sincerely believe
it should be where it is got to be and
after that is when you're looking at
replenishing the
existing lifespan of a particular Vector
life lifespan of a particular long-term
asset and then looking at just the
components and so and then within that
you're looking at how much is Army how
much is Navy how much is Air Force how
much is Coast Guard so it is not as if
we blindly give one chunk of amount and
say sorry that's the end of the story
you can do now what we placed emphasis
in this vot on account is to make
Innovation driven procurement and
Manufacturing within India for atbar
defense so you're driving money towards
greater Innovation within the country
that you're able to produce those
equipments which are critical for you
within India for that I made a separate
allocation so it is now a lot more
calibrated to the needs of each one of
them it's not blank and give money do
what you want one of the big
developments in the international money
markets this year will be when JP Morgan
includes Indian government bonds in the
uh Government Bond index for emerging
markets from June uh we we've seen that
you've reduced the fiscal deficit from
the projected 5.9 to 5.8 now hoping to
bring this down to
5.1 how much how important is it for you
to send a message to International
rating agencies to improve India's
credit rating at this moment and how are
you looking at this inclusion and all
the billions of dollars that flow into
India after this see there are two
different things going into JP Morgan's
listing is one thing you are going to
get money which is going to be less
costly
and it'll be almost a default setup that
it'll keep coming once it is in the list
and so
on that's one side yes it'll enable that
process from June let us say but the
other is about the credit rating
agencies am I bringing down the fiscal
deficit from 5.9 where it was expected
to be to 5.8 because I want a better
perspective shared with the F no it can
can be so it can be a collateral but I'm
more aiming at getting India's Fisk a
lot more primed up a lot more toned up
so that it just carry too much of flab
that you're not able to at any point in
time take that kind of a you know
decision making or give commitments to
better perform so discipline and fiscal
management is something which Prime
Minister Modi takes very seriously even
as a chief minister he's had a record
showing how he managed economy finances
within Gujarat some of the states aren't
following this kind of an approach How
concerned are you by the kind of public
indied we're seeing in some of the
opposition it is concerning and we talk
to them we try to sort of uh help them
out to rearrange their uh uh fiscal But
ultimately it is the state's
responsibility we can only be the good
Council we can't do anything more beyond
that but of course ultimately under
Constitution's article 293 we we are
going to have to take the final call and
responsibility on that but that is a
very delicate play because we can't
encroach into the state's decision
making Finance Minister soon after the
budget Moody's came out and taking this
point forward uh about our uh the rating
Outlook and it said India's debt to GDP
Still Remains High despite the fact that
you projected decline 58.1% to 57.2% in
fi25 are rating agencies missing the the
point about the kind of fiscal
transformation that uh the Modi
government has been trying for the last
10
years it's good that you're saying it
and I've not said it but that's the
truth look at the borrowing debt to GDP
number for developed
economies they are well beyond 200s and
300s well over 100 any
case they're credit rating doesn't get
affected by the debt to
GDP so when mine is well below 100 at 80
let us say but if it matters to the
rating agencies that my debt to GDP is
not above 100 I have no answers to give
it is not above
100 okay ma'am let's speak for a moment
about disinvestment you know you've got
some public sector unit uh companies
which are different stages of
disinvestment there is no ambitious
Target for disinvestment there seems to
be a change in thinking so if you can
explain that and if and when you do come
back to Power uh how important is
strategic disinvestment as one of the
missions for the Modi government and for
you personally as Finance Minister how
committed are we still to trying to get
government out of companies which the
government really ought not to be
running I'll start with the fact that
I've stated it as a matter of
policy went through the parliament got
got approved and came out 2122 budget
that we do believe that all sectors
should be open for private participation
no sector should be reserved for public
sector only and even if public sectors
present in those core strategically
important sectors they will be minimal
presence I believe in it Prime Minister
Modi believes in it it is the policy
approved by the parliament of India now
therefore for I will have to consolidate
in those sectors public sector presence
or I will where I can't amalgamate or
bring together or scale up I will have
to get out of some of them for which the
approval is obtained I will have to do
it but equally before I do it during the
time I'm waiting to do it I will have to
pay attention to the valuation of that
comp I can't allow it to languish and I
can't allow it to continue to languish
till before I throw them out or till
before I get out of them and when I want
to get out of them if I don't allow them
to flourish in the meanwhile the
valuation that I obtain from the market
is going to be trivial if anything at
all so we have for one I want to be sure
to tell the people of India even if I've
taken a call to disinvest a complete a
company completely I'm a in to keep it
in its prime condition now and that is
why you find the public sector companies
in the stock market now performing much
better and giving better dividends to
all the shareholders we can be some of
it and others are also taking the
dividend from it the other way of also
looking at if disinvestment is happening
is when we have come down in the level
of holding that I have further letting
it into the market so that r
uh investors would come in so the level
to which I hold my shares in a public
public sector company also is something
which you have to observe because I'm
slowly coming down in terms of the level
to which I'm holding shares in these my
question m' was about as far as a core
tenant of belief is concerned how
important is strategic disinvestment for
you personally and for this government
at this moment polic the manner because
we saw India happened quite seamlessly
and you were able to get it out but we
are we aren't really seeing the same
sense of pace and urgency when it comes
to some of the other disinvestment
projects are currently in the pipeline
and I'm kind of wondering when you see
glad to hear this from you Rahul before
Air India I was Piller when is it
happening when is it happening every
time I met with a journalist friend this
would be the question and at that time
it looked as if I'm sitting over it over
a
century I'm glad to hear that now no as
I said it will will happen our
commitments will be fulfilled and the
core belief that you keep asking me
about that is why I went back to tell
you that it is this government which
went to the parliament to say
disinvestment is what we believe in
because other than the core sectors
there's no way in which we need to be
present as government and in the core
sectors it is because of strategic
interest Telecom unless I'm there I
won't be able to cover my first Villages
which are now called vibrant villages
private sector wouldn't go there but how
would I give give them connectivity I
need to be there Railways I need to be
there like that our belief is to have
minimal PRS uh FM just one quick follow
up on that is the market and other
analysts missing the point that the
dividends that come to you from Central
public sector undertakings or for the
matter RBI which has helped contain the
fiscal deficit in this budget's
calculation as well that is also Al in
some ways revenue from the assets that
have been built by the ex the market
know it it is you journalists who want
to go asking me this question okay enjoy
it I'll I'll come to another point and
this is to do with the north south
narrative that uh keeps happening two
questions there and just to add uh data
here the tax Devolution in fi 24 ma'am
that you announced and we have seen that
Rose
16% Central transfers are equally high
at
15% yet there is this north south
narrative and some voices from the south
seem to suggest that the south is
getting a raw deal it contributes more
to tax Collections and the north takes
it away how would you respond to that
it's entirely politically M
motivated not backed by by facts or data
and above all very
divisionary and encourage sist
elements it is being done deliberately
is my allegation I charge them with that
they're doing it
deliberately if that is the case that we
want to talk about look at the
Investments that are going to the South
not private
governments why does the government of
India invest then it is because country
as a whole will have to leverage the
strengths that exist in the
country from one area one strength
minerals material all of them come do we
then allow that area to say without me
giving you coal without me giving you I
know nothing will move so give me the
entire earning is that the way we look
at
it
then if that is the way we have to look
at regions which give higher
Revenue within a developed state which
says I contribute so much Maharashtra
contributes a lot more can it say that
give me that much one second even within
Karnataka where the honorable deputy
chief Minister's brother has said look
we are not getting as much as we giving
so it might mean that we'll have to form
a separate country out of South India
I'd like to ask him bangaluru
contributes to karnataka's income much
disproportionately higher now if all
citizens of bangaluru say look we want
to be a separate country man be damned
with your
kala be damned with your chraa what will
the government say there which is now in
power which is Congress comment the same
can be for
Mumbai in Maharashtra Mumbai can say
sorry it's all my money H Mumbai becomes
a separate country you go VBA be your
own Marat be your own are we okay with
that kind of language are we okay with
that kind of a thought somewhere in the
back of our
minds it's UT
irresponsible and above all I think it's
done with a purpose to bring in that
element of you know doubt in the minds
of people who live in these regions to
say oh probably the government is
cheating us it's not giving us us a du
are you a elected responsible leader
sitting in the Lo SAA and there are few
others like
that believing in the constitution of
India are you speaking responsibly
is this the narrative you want to put
forth in the
public and is it true narrative if it is
true I can then say yeah you're speaking
the truth we'll have to look into
it is this the
truth where does it lead us
to utterly irresponsible but I think
this is the trend with which the
congress party is growing in the last 10
to 20 years we are seeing repetition of
the tu tu sympathies within the Congress
they went and stood in jnu with that
gang which wanted to break
India they are now speaking this
language from the south they're
supporting parties which speak sist
language the DMK for instance they
support them in Tamil Nadu they speak
that
language so what is this are we here by
the
Constitution or are we different
elements of breaking
India ma' there's been some conversation
about senior ministers in the Modi
cabinet fighting a Lo SAA election while
of course that's something the party
will decide would you like to put your
hand up and say give me a seat somewhere
in Tamil NAD or wherever it is that you
prefer which state would you prefer to
fight from probably tamad in my
understanding and would you like to do
it would you relish the prospect of
getting out of North block fighting a
loab election you know party like BJP
it's not the person who reles to do a BC
it is a party which says okay now you do
this and you may also want to relish it
and we follow it but would you relish
that challenge moving from the party
says right okay now ma'am you know there
was an interview that I did with
Professor auram Rajan at Davos and I've
been wanting to ask you this question
since his larger point was that the
government the Modi government at this
moment makes it seem as if we're on a 7%
growth path and that this is relative to
what's happening in the world very good
he says given our stage of economic
Evolution we should really be aiming for
9 10 % he chided me to ask government
when I got a chance uh that you know
this is actually our current growth
prospects and forecast are 2 or 3%
lesser than what you said while you were
in opposition and his charge is that
just because we can't find the ways of
growing at 9 to 10% the government is
now making it seem as if 7% is the best
that can be done look at China at a
similar stage of its Evolution cycle
look at the Spirit which they were
growing if India does intend to become a
vixi country we need to be growing at 9
10% how would you respond to raguram
Raj I would want to ask you should I
respond to him as raguram Rajan The
Economist or raguram Rajan the
politician the answer will depend on
it no I want to say this first that's an
answer that I'm giving
you because raguram Rajan also had told
us that we shouldn't invest anymore in
manufacturing concentrate on
services but when he wants to talk on
China he would compare China has always
interested hugely in manufacturing now
I'm not imitating China we'll have to
find ways in which our own strengths can
be further
leveraged so that is one advice
earlier so I find it difficult to take
raguram rajan's advice also because he
was here holding a very responsible
position as governor of Reserve Bank of
India the banks went through torment
a
regulator looked the other way then
phone calls were going to the banks and
Banks were yielding to the phone calls
the regulator didn't tell them you will
yield only to the banking norms and not
to phone
calls so raguram Rajan make up your mind
when you speak to the government and
nudging the media to go ask the
government questions say first of all
look I'm now wearing my Economist hat
and sometimes I'm wearing my political
hat that might be easy for us to address
Finance Minister many decades ago and I
grew up and millions of Indians grew up
with the Roti Kapa makan slogan and in
the last 10 years of Modi nomics Roti
through the uh free food scheme for 800
million plus people and now this budget
announcing more expansion as far as
housing is concerned all also a new
scheme for middle class housing
hopefully to address people who are on
rent the Capa is missing or should we
look forward for another word instead of
Kapa in the RO Kapa makan phrase no Kapa
is not missing Kapa is something which
the family can choose to do if they are
otherwise benefited in terms of the
basic
necessities so it's not as if you're
going to take care of food but not
clothe no if that individual and his
family is empowered enough he they'll
take a call on how they want to spend
their money instead of I mean like I
wouldn't want to quote ma but wasn't it
Ma who said look no good helping him to
fish today giving a fish in his hand
give him the skills to fish he will be
able to we are aiming at provide the
basic facility then give him access to
different opportunities he wants to do
his own business don't stifle him by
saying get me a collateral then I'll
lend you no collateral I'll lend you do
your business similarly if they are in
villages wanting more technology into
the fields we are giving the drones we
are training them so go do it
simultaneously looking at the gender
parity and so on
so aim of this government is to empower
the person to make his own decision so
is it Ro Kapa Finance because this
budget is also announced a long-term
scheme for
financing financing has already happened
it's continuing to happen mudra Swan are
all financing so that will continue also
we will enable people who have
aspirations to become entrepreneurs to
get assistance from the banks M we're
coming towards the end of this interview
you've now presented six budgets I want
your sense of how you see your Evolution
as Finance Minister from year one to
year six everybody has their own take
and there's so many pink papers writing
constantly about every move you make but
when you look at the mirror and reflect
how how do you think you've evolved as
an economist as a finance minister as an
individual as a politician over these
six years gosh that that's very many I
can't answer all of
them uh well it's been u a challenge and
also an opportunity to work in such an
environment and uh it's not just saying
it I I honestly do feel very much from
the bottom of my heart to have a leader
under in the name of Prime Minister Modi
and work with
them I've worked in corporate
environments earlier the level of
professional the level
of
task tasking an individual and making
sure that performance is the only
criteria professionalism in work and
making sure that till the last minute if
guidance and handholding is required it
is provided being objective being we
need to deliver we need to deliver so
that sense of working in a team with the
guidance of the right kind of you know
assistance and not
patronage is immensely satisfying Raa
mantal or with mantal if you had to
pick both were great and and there was
Commerce as well and commerce as well
and I've been very fortunate in that my
party and my prime minister have given
me opportunities to serve in each one of
these responsibilities this has been a
broad ranging interview for your
responses and for your time and for your
fiscal discipline in an election cycle
uh which is as rare as rare can be and
that's something that's now being looked
at internationally Finance Minister
thank you so much for speaking to India
today and business thank you very
appreciate it let's see if you're back
in July you've almost indicated that
I'll be back
this government will be B who will be
where I cannot that's not my it's much
beyond my P Grant thank you so much for
your time appreciate thank
you hello and welcome the most obvious
impulse of any Finance Minister heading
into an election cycle is to roll out
the populist red carpet and yet Finance
Minister nirmala sitaraman chose fiscal
Prudence does this reflect a sense of
confidence about the Modi government
coming back to power a third time is she
sending a market to signal to the
international bond markets and what's
the economic Outlook from the finance
Minister's perspective from here on to
talk about all of this we're joined at
the North block at the finance
Minister's office by six-time budget
presenter Nala sitaraman Finance
Minister welcome and thank you for your
time this Minister by my colleague
business the television's managing
editor sidat zarabi ma'am I want to
start by getting you to talk about the
comparison between this interim budget
and the last couple of interim budgets
which happened just before the
announcement of Elections there was
always a lot of populism you chose to
stay away from that are you deliberately
sending out a message that I'll be back
in July and I'll do what I need to at
that time I don't need to do anything
right
now well the message about us coming
back is the way in which you all
reporting about things how the
government has performed how in the last
10 years those promises which were given
were
fulfilled
and on the ground actually people are
actually speaking about the work of this
government and not a whisper of
corruption so that's the message which
people are themselves giving Which you
the media carrying but I've taken the
interim budget as an interim
budget and asking for a wot on account
just to keep the business going of the
government is what it is meant for done
only that when you do a temperature
check of the Indian economy what is it
that gives you the greatest reason for
optimism and what is it that's giving
you nightmare or the most concern at
this
moment
um the optimism bit is because the power
of the word of
mouth people who have benefited from
government's
promises are speaking about it
themselves and they are cross the board
they don't belong to any one section one
region one state one language one
religion they are all
over and that gives trust in people's
mind people trust you will probably
trust your friends your neighbors your
peers your colleagues rather than
trusting a political leader by Nature
India is like that and therefore when
people say yes I've also got a house
here's the paper I've got the gas
connection what has come to my uh
tap and my sons are or daughters are
getting skills they are getting
recruited they going into you know Armed
Forces Med colleges signic schools so
that power of that word of mouth among
beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries
is the one which makes me feel that
people realize this is a government
proom which promises and delivers and
the prime minister is absolutely seized
of everything that is happening in the
ground
that is one confidence the other
confidence try as they may the
opposition in the their rulle states as
well have not matched this kind of
performance and top it all with no one
getting any personal pecary
benefit not one scandal in 10
years the image of India fragile five
policy paralysis corruption at every
level it's changed in 10
years you think people of India don't
recognize that so that's the confidence
Challenge and worry you yeah Challenge
and worry more external Wars abroad you
know uncertainty in the red sea fish
Marine Lines getting
affected Transportation Supply Chain
disruptions those I think in the last 3
4 years if you can say with sense of
confidence
uncertainty has become the rule of the
game we have to live with it we have to
factor in for it since you speak about
living with uncertainty and factoring it
in 10 years of modomics and you said no
scandals why the need for a white paper
uh on the state of the economy that the
Modi government inherited why
now prime minister himself has spoken
about in 2015 or 16 he said then that
there were a lot of people suggesting to
him that he'd come out with a white
paper and he chose not to do it
then and he explain the reasons as was
available to him at that time he said no
look I'll put my nation first I don't
want to come up with a white paper which
is going to reveal all that was left for
us to inherit and that would only affect
the investors confidence it can affect
the trust that the government the people
of India have in India's own
institutions so it's not the best for me
to do now so I won't do it
now but after 10 full
years and after 10 full years of us very
clearly delivering on our
promises taking Indian economy closer to
being the third largest economy
realizing it probably within a year or
two after we come back let us
say we are now in a safe position to say
to the people of India
this is exactly what we inherited this
is what it took for us to correct it and
in 10 years if this is the level of
effort we've put not just to restore it
but to take it to that
height it is this kind of a leadership
and decision making which we've given
you in the last 10 years now that you
oted us so right time to bring it in I
would think there's a lot of
conversation about what's going right I
want to use this opportunity to talk
about a couple of areas of concern one
is on Rural consumption I was reading
the earnings reports of several of these
fmcg companies which seem to suggest
depending on which company you look at
at least a 20 to 30% decline in rural
consumption a lot of left leaning
economists use this to suggest that
there is a high level of rural distress
as Finance Minister how do you look at
this concern that uh in the rural sector
when it comes comes to consumption a lot
of companies are actually seeing
distress how much of a concern is that
for you and how are you hoping to
address
this I wouldn't just put them aside I
wouldn't say no I'm not worried about it
and I wouldn't say that their studies
are worth nothing no not at all I would
certainly give it my best of
attention but I'm not sure it is that 20
30% that you're talking about fmcg be
companies do have um metrics which we
need to take seriously because it
indicates quick buying of durable goods
but equally it is not correct to say
that
rural distress is continuing because I
think there's a lot of shift in the way
in which rural economy is now going
through there's a lot of shift because
money is going in in the name of you
know one or the other scheme to every
family in the rural area I would dare
say this that there is no family left
without getting at least one or the
other scheme of the government so those
who deserve it rural economy is also
looking at a changing Paradigm in
agriculture a lot of uh you know
commercial crops are coming in the
linkages through the E National
agriculture Market even today there are
media reports about how between
different markets in different regions
better rate is
actualized so farmers are now seeing
potential for them to move to different
crops the emphasis given to the Shri the
millets the emphasis given to
Horticulture is finding newer markets
within their locality the urban centers
close by are benefiting by the
Horticulture reaching them locally and
in reasonable price price so really it's
no longer wheat and rice economy it is a
lot more of horticulture
Fisheries livestock is gaining a lot of
attention also supported by the policy
of the government SGS which are now into
value addition in food and also with
mechanization of
Agriculture which is bringing the
monotony down not throwing people
out themselves are becoming centers for
business agriculture let's say a
Farmer's son or daughter sets up a
business for Lending Leasing and hiring
out
equipments companies are coming in Into
The Villages saying we not all of them
want tractors but holes trying to deweed
every such small agricultural equipment
is now Finding Traction for which their
their sons and daughters themselves are
setting up businesses so there's a lot
happening in rural area Finance Minister
you uh gave a very interesting uh
definition definition of secularism and
you linked it to saturation of the
availability of all government schemes
expand on that is that now uh the new
definition that the Modi government is
pushing out for secularism because it's
a word that has drawn a lot of debate in
the past that's right and uh not just in
24 elections even in 2019 by which time
Ula had reached good
Dimensions you had people belonging to
different communities particularly when
you talk of glass gas cylinders only
women come forward to talk about it men
think it doesn't matter to them because
ultimately the food has reach the table
how does it matter whether it is being
cooked in gas or anything else so men
tend to talk less about it women come
out to say yes I'm benefiting with the
gas
cylinder people who came out to say that
uula has helped me to bring a clean air
in my kitchen and I'm more efficient in
getting my food done belong to all
community
even at that time it was observed by
media observed by political observers
that Wala scheme's implementation has
proven that every eligible person gets
it not just the first charge going to
one particular section as it was
narrated once earlier by a prime
minister so that litus test of te
secularism actually in action has been
felt even in 2019 now it's felt even
more so if secularism has to be
practiced you don't need to Pander to
religious beliefs if you're able to
across the board give everybody
everything you are indifferent to the
person's Faith or religion but making
sure he or she is as good as the other
next
door that's action secularism in action
ma'am let's spend a moment on household
savings which have been one of the
pillars of the Indian economy in Years
Gone by and now household savings are
set to be at a five decad low uh at 5.1%
how how are you looking at the aspect of
Indian households seeming to save much
lesser than they have in past decades
and is that something that you're okay
with is that something that concern
necessary conclusion you can arrive
at households saving lesser than before
no because as much as you talk about
small savings and quote numbers on it
the only option that small saving or
people in middle classes had for saving
their money and with some confidence was
to put it in let's say post office
savings account which continues which is
good enough which can continue any
longer but you're also noticing since
2020 that because of Greater
transparency and greater availability of
information
people are able to see which are those
performing companies they're not even
going through the route of mutual funds
to understand how stock market performs
small saving in the name of retail
funding is coming into the stock markets
and coming through demat accounts which
are unique so I'm not talking about the
same person doing five types of
Investments new demat accounts unique
demat accounts tell you probably many
things which went to post offices
came are coming now into the market so
people are finding newer revenues to
save and probably better returns are
ured in those routs since we speaking
about the markets uh the stock market
regulator recently put out a word of
caution with regard to uh you know a lot
of the trades that are happening are
happening in trading in the derivatives
segment in
fendo do you share that uh note of
concern with regard to the nature of how
people are trading in the markets that
was uh much higher than what it is now I
would think my concern that is much
higher earlier than it is now because
there's a lot of awareness being built
by Regulators to say that uh derivatives
and dealing in fno as you said can have
involve high risk and many people burnt
their fingers uh by starting to operate
there young people who were the
firsttime entrance also burnt their
fingers so there was a lot of discussion
about it in one of our FS DC
meetings uh Regulators are now building
a lot of awareness and uh I would think
that caution has come into play now
Finance Minister how are you you've been
chiding India Inc to go out and invest
to find the strength of Hanuman and to
invest in the India story and for
various reasons the kind of secular
investment cycle that you were hoping
for hasn't really kickstarted you can
see some green shoots in some sectors
but it's not an overall investment cycle
uh how are you viewing because I I we
were together at the rraa bavan and you
were telling a member of India Inc to go
out and invest even further how are you
looking at India Inc in several sectors
still being in wait and watch mode
assessing but not committing fully to
invest at this moment is that now
beginning to get a little frustrating
for you how are you looking at
investment appetite and actual
Investments apart from just the talk but
uh I would equally say that in those
Sunrise sectors which for which we've
announced P schemes and so
on you find private investment coming in
and coming in in significant numbers so
I really cannot say now as I said
earlier that hey you are anuma Hanuman
you start flying it is happening now and
I would think they are very clear in
their heads that their Investments now
will probably go through the the newest
sectors and they may want to build
capacities add capacities to the
existing areas of activity but many of
them are now looking at prospects in the
newer areas so it is happening but
happening much more in the newer Sunrise
sectors Finance Minister U two key
instruments of the government which have
focused on getting new manufacturing and
private investment the point that was
just made one of those schemes of 2019
the end date is 31st March 2024 the
concessional 15% trade for new
manufacturing uh companies along with
that you've given a host of PL schemes
two parts to the question one do you see
the need for continuing with that lower
15% rate eventually perhaps in the full
budget and
second uh does PL scheme need to expand
or at some point of time the government
will say we supported you as much as we
could now go on and do it on your
own uh the answer to your second
question is is not uh we've done it for
a few years so stop it now it's more to
ensure that India gets that lead in
those sectors in the sunrise areas so I
wouldn't time it by saying I've done it
for 2 years shut shot now that that will
not be my Approach my Approach would be
is it really getting rooted in India is
it sustainable and are these industries
really you know taking off so those will
be my measure before I take a call on
that so I w't rush to say I've done it
for 2 years the other is about uh
the reduced tax
rates as I said for many other things
this interim budget was not the time for
me to take a call on that so I'm not
taken one of the critics we've heard
from the opposition finance minister is
that when it comes to social sectors the
percentage of government outlays on
education on health has come down as a
percentage of our GDP in in the years
that this government has been on power
they level the acquisition that while
you're very focused on public
infrastructure uh that the amount of
money that should be set aside for
education and for healthcare isn't
adequate and even the outlays that are
being made are not being fully spent
we're actually spending lesser than we
provisioned for how do you look at this
on the outlay not getting spent I may
not be the best person to answer I'll be
concerned as to why the outlays are not
getting spent but it it will be the
Departments and in particularly health
and education States also have a role it
is a concurrent list of items that we
talking about when we talk about
education and health so it will depend
on how much absorption Happ happens in
the states how much the department is
able to push and so on so those factors
are totally out of my realm but I can
understand where they are and probably a
longer discussion can happen only on
those two uh issues um it's also not
right to measure expenditure on
education and health as being adequate
or not adequate it can never be adequate
I'll concede that any amount that I put
for Education will still think I mean
you'll think I'll think anybody will
feel more can be added and yes more can
be added there cannot be a second
thought on that but the fact remains as
I said also for one question earlier
somewhere else about capital expenditure
this time being not % in increase only
11%
increase there's after all a element
which is called absorption capacity you
can put ton loads of money somewhere and
the in the capex our condition was you
use it within 12 months I'll give you
next year but use what I've given you
now fully this year the absorption
capacity element makes many of them who
genuinely want to spend it after a point
not able to throttle it down within 12
months they would need 13 14 15th month
also but I'm sorry within 12 month it
hasn't happened fully so is the case
with education and health you may want
to put any number into the
outlay but eventually unless there's a
properly fitted Hospital you're not
going to be able to give additional
training to the staff and spend money on
that unless you have more medical seats
available you're not going to have
enough doctors coming into the hospital
hital unless again it is spread all over
the country that's why at one point in
time I remember during my Atma nbar
announcements we said no longer are we
looking at District level hospital now
it has to go to the Block Level so there
are levels and levels to which we need
to now pad with more efforts and
resources so it's not going to happen
within one year suppose I say I'm giving
more enough this year of the
GDP are they in a position to absorb the
first layer is being set second third
and so on I can't pop at the fifth level
when these have not been done Finance
Minister since we are speaking about
allocations um explain the philosophy on
the defense allocation you've been
defense minister you've been Commerce
Minister and defense still about 6 lakh
CR the highest allocation but some
people say it's still 4.72% year on-year
growth uh earlier than that in the
previous Financial year there was a
substantial increase what's the
philosophy behind the defense budget
allocation first of all defense and
their procurement you know it coming
from a defense background uh your friend
Rahul will know it we shared that
background yes the
long-term perspective planning that the
defense has is really long time and they
go on fitting every year towards
achieving that long-term
goal and for each year it's not a
proportionate allocation towards that
long term sometime it's more sometimes
it's less sometimes it's just about all
right and so on so it is the end goal
that your long-term perspective plan
which has to be achieved and in the
process the allocations keep going up
and down in order that we get a complete
picture of how money is got to be
allocated for defense is where the
division happens pensions and salaries
the revenue is one account we don't in
still about 52% of the we don't we don't
include that it may be 52% of the Total
Defense budget no that's that's a
committed one and we sincerely believe
it should be where it has got to be and
after that is when you're looking at
replenishing the
existing lifespan of a particular Vector
life lifespan of a particular long-term
asset and then looking at just the
components and so and then within that
you're looking at how much is Army how
much is Navy how much is Air Force how
much is Coast Guard so so it is not as
if we blindly give one chunk of amount
and say sorry that's the end of the
story you can do now what we placed
emphasis in this vote on account is to
make Innovation driven procurement and
Manufacturing within India for atanur
defense so you're driving money towards
greater Innovation within the country
that you able to produce those
equipments which are critical for you
within India for that I made a separate
allocation so it is now a lot more
calibrated to the needs of each one of
them it's not blanket give money do what
you want one of the big developments in
the international money markets this
year will be when JP Morgan includes
Indian government bonds in the uh
Government Bond index for emerging
markets from June uh we've seen that
you've reduced the fiscal deficit from
the projected 5.9 to 5.8 now hoping to
bring this down to 5.1
how much how important is it for you to
send a message to International rating
agencies to improve India's credit
rating at this moment and how are you
looking at this inclusion and all the
billions of dollars that flow into India
after this see there are two different
things going into JP Morgans listing is
one thing you are going to get money
which is going to be less
costly and it'll be almost a default
setup that it'll keep coming once it is
in the list and so on
that's one side yes it'll enable that
process from June let us say but the
other is about the credit rating
agencies am I bringing down the fiscal
deficit from 5.9 where it was expected
to be to 5.8 because I want a better
perspective shared with the F no it can
be so it can be a collateral but I'm
more aiming at getting India's Fisk a
lot more more primed up a lot more toned
up so that it just carry too much of
flab that you're not able to at any
point in time take that kind of a you
know decision making or give commitments
to better perform so discipline in
fiscal management is something which
Prime Minister Modi takes very seriously
even as a chief minister he's had a
record showing how he managed economy
finances within Gujarat some of the
states aren't following this kind of an
approach How concerned are you by the
kind of public indied we're seeing in
some of the opposition it is concerning
and we talk to them we try to sort of uh
help them out to rearrange their uh uh
fiscal But ultimately it is the state's
responsibility we can only be the good
Council we can't do anything more beyond
that but of course ultimately under
Constitution's article 293 we are going
to have to take the final call and
responsibility on that but that is a
very delicate play because we can't
encroach into this State's decision
making Finance Minister soon after the
budget Moody's came out and taking this
point forward uh about our the rating
Outlook and it said India's debt to GDP
Still Remains High despite the fact that
you projected decline 58.1% to 57.2% in
fi25 are rating agencies missing the
point about the kind of fiscal
transformation that uh the Modi
government has been trying for the last
10 years
it's good that you're saying it and I've
not said it but that's the
truth look at the borrowing debt to GDP
number for developed
economies they are well beyond 200s and
300s well over 100 any
case their credit rating doesn't get
affected by the debt to
GDP so when mine is well with below 100
at 80 let us say but if it matters to
the rating agencies that my debt to GDP
is not above 100 I have no answers to
give it is not above
100 okay ma'am let's speak for a moment
about disinvestment you know you've got
some public sector unit uh companies
which are different stages of
disinvestment there is no ambitious
Target for disinvestment there seems to
be a change in thinking so if you can
explain that and if and when you do come
back to Power uh how important is
strategic disinvestment as one of the
missions for the Modi government and for
you personally as Finance Minister how
committed are we still to trying to get
government out of companies which the
government really ought not to be
running I'll start with the fact that
I've stated it as a matter of
policy went through the parliament got
approved and came out 2122 budget that
we do believe that all sector should be
open for private participation no sector
should be reserved for public sector
only and even if public sector is
present in those core strategically
important sectors they will be minimal
presence I believe in it Prime Minister
Modi believes in it it is the policy
approved by the parliament of India now
therefore I will have to consolidate in
those sectors public sector presence or
I will where I can't amalgamate or bring
together or scale up I will have to get
out of some of them for which the
approval is obtained I will have to do
it but equally before I do it during the
time I'm waiting to do it I will have to
pay attention to the valuation of that
conf I can't allow it to languish and I
can't allow it to continue to languish
till before I throw them out or till
before I get out out of them and when I
want to get out of them if I don't allow
them to flourish in the meanwhile the
valuation that I obtain from the market
is going to be trivial if anything at
all so we have for one I want to be sure
to tell the people of India even if I've
taken a call to disinvest a complete a
company completely I'm attending to keep
it in its prime condition now and that
is why you find the public sector
companies in the stock market now
performing much better and giving better
dividends to all the shareholders we can
be some of it and others are also taking
the dividend from it the other way of
also looking at if disinvestment is
happening is when we have come down in
the level of holding that I have further
letting it into the market so that
retail uh investors would come in so the
level to which I hold my shares is in a
public public sector company also is
something which you have to observe
because I'm slowly coming down in terms
of the level to which I'm holding shares
in these my question M was about as far
as a core tenant of belief is concerned
how important is strategic disinvestment
for you personally and for this
government at this moment the manner in
because we saw Air India happen quite
seamlessly and you were able to get it
out but we are we aren't really seeing
the same sense of pace and urgency when
it comes to some of the other
disinvestment projects are currently in
the pipeline and I'm kind of wondering
when you see glad to hear this from you
Rahul before Air India I was pillared
when is it happening when is it
happening every time I met with a
journalist friend this would be the
question and at that time it looked as
if I'm sitting over it over a
century I'm glad to hear that now no as
I said it will happen our commitments
will be fulfilled and the core belief
that you keep asking me about that is
why I went back to tell you that that it
is this government which went to the
parliament to say disinvestment is what
we believe in because other than the
core sectors there's no way in which we
need to be present as government and in
the core sectors it is because of
strategic interest telom unless I'm
there I wouldn't be able to cover my
first Villages which are now called
vibrant Villages private sector wouldn't
go there but how would I give give them
connectivity I need to be there Railways
I need to be there
like that our belief is to have minimal
presents uh FM just one quick follow up
on that is the market and other analysts
missing the point that the dividends
that come to you from Central public
sector undertakings or for the matter
RBI which has helped contain the fiscal
deficit in this budget's calculation as
well that is also in some ways revenue
from the assets that have been built by
the ex Market know it it is you
journalists who want to go ask me this
question okay enjoy it I'll I'll come to
another point and this is to do with the
north south narrative that uh keeps
happening two questions there and just
to add uh data here the tax Devolution
in f524 ma'am that you announced and we
have seen that Rose
16% Central transfers are equally high
at
15% yet there is this north south
narrative and some voices from the south
seem to suggest that the South is
getting a raw deal it contributes more
to tax Collections and the north takes
it away how would you respond to that
it's entirely politically M
motivated not backed by by facts or data
and above all very
divisionary and encourage sist elements
it is being done deliberately is my
allegation I charge them with that
they're doing it deliberately
if that is the case that we want to talk
about look at the Investments that are
going to the South not private
governments why does the government of
India invest then it is because country
as a whole will have to leverage the
strengths that exist in the
country from one area one strength
minerals material all of them come do we
then allow that area to say without me
giving you C
without me giving you I or nothing will
move so give me the entire earning is
that the way we look at
it
then if that is the way we have to look
at regions which give higher
Revenue within a developed state which
says I contribute so much Maharashtra
contributes a lot more can it say that
give me that much one second even within
Karnataka where the The Honorable deputy
chief Minister's brother has said look
we are not getting as much as we giving
so it might mean that we'll have to form
a separate country out of South India
I'd like to ask him bangaluru
contributes to karnataka's income much
disproportionately higher now if all
citizens of bangaluru say look we want
to be a separate country man be damned
with your kalaraka be damned with your
chraa what will the government say there
which is now in public which is Congress
government the same can be for
Mumbai in Maharashtra Mumbai can say
sorry it's all my money Mumbai becomes a
separate country you go VBA be your own
Marat be your own are we okay with that
kind of language are we okay with that
kind of a thought somewhere in the back
of our
minds it's utterly
irresponsible and above all I think it's
done with a purpose to bring in that
element of you know doubt in the minds
of people who live in these regions to
say oh probably the government is
cheating us it's not giving us us a du
are you a elected responsible leader
sitting in the Lo saaba and there are
few others like
that believing in the constitution of
India are you speaking
responsibly is this the narrative you
want to put forth in the
public and is it true narrative if it is
true I can then say yeah you're speaking
the truth we'll have to look into
it is this the
truth where does it lead us
to utterly irresponsible but I think
this is the trend with which the
congress party is growing in the last 10
to 20 years we are seeing repetition of
the TU to sympathies within the Congress
they went and stood in J with that gang
which wanted to break in
India they are now speaking this
language from the south they're
supporting parties which speak sist
language the DMK for instance they
support them in Tamil Nadu they speak
that
language so what is this are we here by
the
Constitution or are we different
elements of break
India ma' there's been some conversation
about senior ministers in the Modi
cabinet fighting a l OFA election while
of course that's something the party
will decide would you like to put your
hand up and say give me a seat somewhere
in Tamil NAD or wherever it is that you
prefer which state would you prefer to
fight from probably Tamil NAD in my
understanding and would you like to do
it would you relish the prospect of
getting out of North block fighting a
loab election you know party like BJP
it's not the person who religious to do
a BC it is the party which says okay now
you do this and you may also want to
relish it and we follow it but would you
relish that challenge moving from the
party says right
okay now ma'am you know there was an
interview that I did with Professor
auram Rajan at Davos and I've been
wanting to ask you this question since
his larger point was that the government
the Modi government at this moment makes
it seem as if we're on a 7% growth path
and that this is relative to what's
happening in the world very good he says
given our stage of economic Evolution we
should really be aiming for 9 10% he
chided me to ask government when I got a
chance uh that you know this is actually
our current growth prospects and
forecast 2 or 3% lesser than what you
said while you were in opposition and
his charge is that just because we can't
find the ways of growing at 9 to 10% the
government is now making it seem as if
7% is the best that can be done look at
China at a similar stage of its
Evolution cycle look at the Spirit which
they were growing if India does intend
to become a vixit country we need to be
growing at 9 10% how would you respond
to raguram
Raj I would want to ask you should I
respond to him as raguram Rajan The
Economist or raguram Rajan the
politician
the answer will depend on
it no I want to say this first that's an
answer that I'm giving
you because raguram Rajan also had told
us that we shouldn't invest anymore in
manufacturing concentrate on
services but when he wants to talk on
China he would compare China has always
interested hugely in manufacturing now
I'm not imitating China we'll have to
find ways in which our own strengths can
be further
leveraged so that is one advice
earlier so I find it difficult to take
raguram rajan's advice also because he
was here holding a very responsible
position as governor of Reserve Bank of
India the banks went through
torment a
regulator looked the other way then
phone call were going to the banks and
Banks were yielding to the phone calls
the regulator didn't tell them you will
yield only to the banking norms and not
the phone
calls so raguram Rajan make up your mind
when you speak to the government and
nudging the media to go ask the
government questions say first of all
look I'm now wearing my Economist hat
and sometimes I'm wearing my political
hat that might be easy for us to address
Finance Minister many decades ago and I
grew up and millions of Indians grew up
with the Roti Kara Magan slogan and in
the last 10 years of modomics Roti
through the uh free food scheme for 800
million plus people and now this budget
announcing more expansion as far as
housing is concerned also a new scheme
for middle class housing hopefully to
address people who are on rent the Capa
is missing or should should we look
forward for another word instead of Kapa
in the RO Kapa makan phrase no Kapa is
not missing Kapa is something which the
family can choose to do if they are
otherwise benefited in terms of the
basic
necessities so it's not as if you're
going to take care of food but not
clothed no if that individual and his
family is empowered enough he they'll
take a call on how they want to spend
their money
instead of I mean like I wouldn't want
to quote ma but wasn't it Ma who said
look no good helping him to fish today
giving him fish in his hand give him the
skills to fish he will be able to we are
aiming at provide the basic facility
then give him access to different
opportunities he wants to do his own
business don't stifle him by saying get
me a collateral then I'll lend you no
collateral I'll lend you do your
business similarly if they are in
villages wanting more technology into
the fields we are giving the drones we
are training them so go do it
simultaneously looking at the gender
parity and so on
so aim of this government is to empower
the person to make his own decision so
is it Ro Kapa Finance because this
budget is also announced a long-term
scheme for
financing financing has already happened
it's continu to happen mudra Swan are
all financing so that will continue also
we will enable people who have
aspirations to become entrepreneurs to
get assistance from the banks now we're
coming towards the end of this interview
you've now presented six budgets I want
your sense of how you see your Evolution
as Finance Minister from year one to
year six everybody has their own take
and there's so many pink papers writing
constantly about every move you make but
when you look at the mirror and reflect
how how do you think you've evolved as
an economist as a finance minister as an
individual as a politician over these
six years gosh that that's very many I
can't answer all of them
at uh well it's been u a challenge and
also an opportunity to work in such an
environment and uh it's not just saying
it I honestly do feel very much from the
bottom of my heart to have a leader
under in the name of prime minister m
and work with
him I've worked in corporate
environments earlier the level of
professionals the level
of
task tasking an individual and making
sure that performance is the only
criteria professionalism in work and
making sure that till the last minute if
guidance and handholding is required it
is provided being objective being we
need to de
we need to deliver so that sense of
working in a team with the guidance of
the right kind of you know assistance
and not
patronage is immensely
satisfying Raa mantal or with mantal if
you had to
pick both were great and and there was
Commerce as well and commerce as well
I've I've been very fortunate in that my
party and my prime minister have given
me opportunities to serve in each one of
these respons
this has been a broad ranging interview
for your responses and for your time and
for your fiscal discipline in an
election cycle uh which is as rare as
rare can be and that's something that's
now being looked at internationally
Finance Minister thank you so much for
speaking to India today in business
thank you appreciate it let's see if
you're back in July you've almost
indicated that I'll be back in July this
government will be back who will be
where I cannot that's not my it's much
beyond my
pay great thank you so much appreciate
thank
you hello and welcome the most obvious
impulse of any Finance Minister heading
into an election cycle is to roll out
the populist red carpet and yet Finance
Minister nirmala sitaraman chose fiscal
Prudence does this reflect a sense of
confidence about the Modi government
coming back to power a third time is she
sending a market to a signal to the
international bond markets and what's
the economic Outlook from the finance
Minister's perspective from here on to
talk about all of this we're joined at
the North block at the finance
Minister's office by six-time budget
presenter Nala sitaraman Finance
Minister welcome and thank you for your
time this Finance Minister by my
colleague business the television's
managing editor sidat zarabi ma'am I
want to start by getting you to talk
about the comparison between this
interim budget and the last couple of
interm budgets which happened just
before the announcement of Elections
there was always a lot of populism you
chose to stay away from that are you
deliberately sending out a message that
I'll be back in July and I'll do what I
need to at that time I don't need to do
anything right
now well the message about us coming
back is the way in which you all
reporting about things how the
government has performed how in the last
10 years those promises which were given
were
fulfilled
and on the ground actually people are
actually speaking about about the work
of this government and not a whisper of
corruption so that's the message which
people are themselves giving Which you
the media are carrying but I've taken
the interim budget as an interim
budget and asking for a w on account
just to keep the business going of the
government is what it is meant for I've
done only that when you do a temperature
check of the Indian economy what is it
that gives you the greatest reason for
optimism and what is it that's giving
you nightmare or the most concern at
this
moment
um the optimism bit is because the power
of the word of
mouth people who have benefited from
government's
promises are speaking about it
themselves and they are cross the board
they don't belong to any one section one
region one state one language one
religion they are all over and that
gives trust in people's mind people
trust you will probably trust your
friends your neighbors your peers your
colleagues rather than trusting a
political leader by Nature India is like
that and therefore when people say yes
I've also got a house here's the paper
I've got the gas connection what has
come to my uh
tap and my sons are or daughters are
getting skills they are getting
recruited they going into
you know Armed Forces Med colleges seic
schools so that power of that word of
mouth among beneficiaries or potential
beneficiaries is the one which makes me
feel that people realize this is a
government promise which promises and
delivers and the prime minister is
absolutely seized of everything that is
happening in the ground that is one
confidence the other
confidence try as they may the
opposition in the their ruled States as
well have not matched this kind of
performance and top it all with no one
getting any personal pecary
benefit not one scandal in 10
years the image of India fragile five
policy paralysis corruption at every
level it's changed in 10
years you think people of India don't
recognize that so that's the confidence
and conerns you yeah Challenge and worry
more external Wars abroad you know
uncertainty in the red sea fish Marine
Lines getting
affected Transportation Supply Chain
disruptions those I think in the last 3
4 years if you can say with sense of
confidence uncertainty has become the
rule of the game we have to live with it
we have to factor in for
since you speak about living with
uncertainty and factoring it in 10 years
of modomics and you said no scandals why
the need for a white paper uh on the
state of the economy that the Modi
government inherited why
now prime minister himself has spoken
about in 2015 or 16 he said then that
there were a lot of people suggesting to
him that he'd come out with a white
paper and he chose not to do it then and
and he explained the reasons as was
available to him at that time he said no
look I'll put my nation first I don't
want to come up with a white paper which
is going to reveal all that was left for
us to inherit and that would only affect
the investors's confidence it can affect
the trust that the government the people
of India have in India's own
institutions so it's not the best thing
for me to do now so I won't do it
now but after 10 full
years and after 10 full years of us very
clearly delivering on our
promises taking Indian economy closer to
being the third largest economy
realizing it probably within a year or
two after we come back let us
say we are now in a safe position to say
to the people of India this is exactly
what we inherited this is what it took
for us to correct it
and in 10 years if this is the level of
effort we've put not just to restore it
but to take it to that
height it is this kind of a leadership
and decision making which we've given
you in the last 10 years now that you
oted us so right time to bring it in I
would think ma' there's a lot of
conversation about what's uh going right
I want to use this opportunity to talk
about a couple of areas of concern one
is on Rural consumption I was reading
the earning reports of several of these
fmcg companies which seem to suggest
depending on which company you look at
at least a 20 to 30% decline in rural
consumption a lot of left leaning
economists use this to suggest that
there is a high level of rural distress
as Finance Minister how do you look at
this concern that uh in the rural sector
when it comes to consumption a lot of
companies are actually seeing distress
how much of a concern is that for you
and how are you hoping to address this
I wouldn't just put them aside I
wouldn't say no I'm not worried about it
and I wouldn't say that their studies
are worth nothing no not at all I would
certainly give it my best of
attention but I'm not sure it is that 20
30% that you're talking about fmcb
companies do have a metrics which we
need to take seriously because it
indicates quick buying of durable Goods
but equally it is not correct to say
that
rural distress is continuing because I
think there's a lot of shift in the way
in which rural economy is now going
through there's a lot of shift because
money is going in in the name of you
know one or the other scheme to every
family in the rural area I would dare
say this that there is no family left
without without getting at least one or
the other scheme of the government so
those who deserve it rural economy is
also looking at a changing Paradigm in
agriculture a lot of uh you know
commercial crops are coming in the
linkages through the E National
agriculture Market even today there are
media reports about how between
different markets in different regions
better rate is actualized
so farmers are now seeing potential for
them to move to different crops the
emphasis given to the Shri and the
millets the emphasis given to
Horticulture is finding newer markets
within their locality the urban centers
close by are benefiting by the
Horticulture reaching them locally and
in reasonable price so really it's no
longer wheat and rice economy it is a
lot more of horticulture Fisheries is
livestock is gaining a lot of attention
also supported by the policy of the
government SGS which are now into value
addition and food and also with
mechanization of
Agriculture which is bringing the
monotony down not throwing people
out themselves are becoming centers for
business agriculture let's say a
farmer's son or daughter sets up a
business for Lending Leasing and hiring
out equipments companies are coming in
Into The Villages saying we not all of
them want tractors but holes trying to
deweed every such small agricultural
equipment is now Finding Traction for
which their their sons and daughters
themselves are setting up businesses so
there's a lot happening in rural area
Finance Minister you uh gave a very
interesting uh definition of secularism
and you linked it to saturation of the
availability of all government schemes
expand on that is that now uh the new
definition that the Modi government is
pushing out for secularism because it's
a word that has drawn a lot of debate in
the past that's right and uh not just in
24 elections even in 2019 by which time
uila had reached good
Dimensions you had people belonging to
different communities particularly when
you talk of glass gas cylinders only
women come forward to talk about it men
think it doesn't matter to them because
ultimately the food has reach the table
how does it matter whether it is being
cooked in gas or anything else so men
tend to talk less about it women come
out to say yes I'm benefiting with the
gas
cylinder people who came out to say that
uula has helped me to bring a clean air
in my kitchen and I'm more efficient in
getting my food done belong to all
communities even at that time it was
observed by media observed by political
Observers
that Wala scheme's implementation has
proven that every eligible person gets
it not just the first charge going to
one particular section as it was
narrated once earlier by a prime
minister so that litmus test of te
secularism actually in
action has been felt even in 2019 now
it's felt even more so if secularism has
to be practiced you don't need to Pander
to religious beliefs if you're able to
across the board give everybody
everything you are indifferent to the
person's Faith or religion but making
sure he or she is as good as the other
next
door that's action secularism in action
ma'am let's spend a moment on household
savings which have been one of the
pillars of the Indian economy in Years
Gone by and now household savings are
said to be at a 5 little low uh at 5.1%
how how are you looking at the aspect of
Indian households seeming to save much
lesser than they have in past decades
and is that something that you're okay
with is that something that concern
necessary conclusion you can arrive
at households saving lesser than before
no because as much as you talk about
small savings and quote numbers on it
the only option that small saving people
in middle classes had for saving their
money and with some confidence was to
put it in let's say post office savings
account which continues which is good
enough which can continue any
longer but you're also noticing since
2020 that because of Greater
transparency and greater availability of
information people are able to see which
are those performing companies they're
not even going through the route of
mutual funds to understand understand
how stock market performs small saving
in the name of retail funding is coming
into the stock markets and coming
through demat accounts which are unique
so I'm not talking about the same person
doing five types of Investments new
demat accounts unique demat accounts
tell you probably many things which went
to post offices came are coming now into
the market so people are finding newer
revenues to save and probably better
returns are accured in those routs since
we speaking about the markets uh the
stock market regulator recently put out
a word of caution with regard to uh you
know a lot of the trades that are
happening are happening in trading in
the derivative segment in F
Ando do you share that note of concern
with regard to the nature of how people
are trading in the markets that was uh
much higher than what it is now I would
think my concern that is much higher
earlier than it is now because there's a
lot of awareness being built by
Regulators to say that uh derivatives
and dealing in fno O as you said can
have involve high risk and many people
burnt their fingers uh by starting to
operate there young people who were the
first time entrance also burnt their
fingers so there was a lot of discussion
about it in one of our FS DC meetings uh
Regulators are now building a lot of
awareness and uh I would think that
caution has come into play now Finance
Minister how are you you've been chiding
India Inc to go out and invest to find
the strength of Hanuman and to invest in
the India story and for various reasons
the kind of secular investment cycle
that you were hoping for hasn't really
kickstarted you can see some green
shoots in some sectors but it's not an
overall investment cycle uh how are you
viewing because I I we were together
together at the rashtrapati bavan and
you were telling a member of India Inc
to go out and invest even further so how
are you looking at India Inc in several
sectors still being in wait and watch
mode assessing but not committing fully
to invest at this moment is that now
beginning to get a little frustrating
for you how are you looking at
investment appetite and actual
Investments apart from just the talk but
uh I would equally say that in those
Sunrise sectors which for which we've
announced PL schemes and so
on you find private investment coming in
and coming in in significant numbers so
I really cannot say now as I said
earlier that hey you are anuma Hanuman
you start flying it is happening now and
I would think they are very clear in
their heads that their Investments now
will probably go through the newer
sectors and they may want to build
capacities add capacities to the
existing areas of activity but many many
of them are now looking at prospects in
the newer areas so it is happening but
happening much more in the newer Sunrise
sector Finance Minister U two key
instruments of the government which have
focused on getting new manufacturing and
private investment the point that was
just made one of those schemes of 2019
the end date is 31st March 2024 the
concessional 15% rate for new
manufacturing uh companies along with
that you've given a host of P schemes
two parts to the question one do you see
the need for continuing with that lower
15% rate eventually perhaps in the full
budget and second uh does bi scheme need
to expand or at some point of time the
government will say we supported you as
much as we could now go on and do it on
your
own uh the answer to your second
question is not uh we've done it for a
few years so stop it now it's more to
ensure that India gets the lead in those
sectors in the sunrise areas so I
wouldn't time it by saying I've done it
for 2 years shut shop now that that will
not be my Approach my Approach would be
is it really getting rooted in India is
it sustainable and are these industries
really you know taking off so those will
be my measure before I take a call on
that so I wouldn't rush to say I've done
it for 2 years the other is about uh
the reduced tax
rates as I said for many other things
this interim budget was not the time for
me to take a call on that so I've not
taken a one of the critics we've heard
from the opposition finance minister is
that when it comes to social sectors the
percentage of government outlays on
education on health has come down as a
percentage of our GDP in the years that
this government has been on power they
level the acquisition that while you're
very focused on public infrastructure uh
uh that the amount of money that should
be set aside for education and for
healthcare isn't adequate and even the
outlays that are being made are not
being fully spent we're actually
spending lesser than we provisioned for
how do you look at this on the outlay
not getting spent I may not be the best
person to answer I'll be concerned as to
why the outl are not getting spent but
it will be the Departments and in
particularly health and education States
also have a role it is a concurrent uh
list of items that we're talking about
when we talk about education and health
so it will depend on how much absorption
Happ happens in the states how much the
department is able to push and so on so
those factors are totally out of my
realm but I can understand where they
are and probably a longer discussion can
happen only on those two uh issues um
it's also not right to measure
expenditure on education and health as
being adequate or not adequate it can
never be adequate it I'll concede that
any amount that I put for Education will
still think I mean you'll think I'll
think anybody will feel more can be
added and yes more can be added there
cannot be a second thought on that but
the fact remains as I said also for one
question earlier somewhere else about
capital expenditure this time being not
30% in increase only 11%
increase there's after all a element
which is called absorption
capacity you can put ton loads of money
somewhere and the in the capex our
condition was you use it within 12
months I'll give you next year but use
what I've given you now fully this year
the absorption capacity element makes
many of them who genuinely want to spend
it after a point not able to throttle it
down within 12 months they would need 13
14 15th month also but I'm sorry within
12 month it hasn't happened fully
so is the case with education and health
you may want to put any number into the
outlet but eventually unless there's a
properly fitted Hospital you're not
going to be able to give additional
training to the staff and spend money on
that unless you have more medical seats
available you're not going to have
enough doctors coming into the hospitals
unless again it is spread all over the
country that's why at one point in time
I remember dur my atbar announcements we
said no longer are we looking at
District level hospital now it has to go
to the Block Level so there are levels
and levels to which we need to now pad
with more efforts and resources so it's
not going to happen within one year
suppose I say I'm giving more now this
year of the
GDP are they in a position to absorb the
first layer is being set second third
and so on I can't top at the fifth level
when these are not been done Finance
Minister since we are speaking about
allocations um explain the philosophy on
the defense allocation you've been
defense minister you've been Commerce
Minister and defense still about 6 lakh
CR the highest allocation but some
people say it's still 4.72% year on-year
growth uh earlier than that in the
previous Financial year there was a
substantial increase what's the
philosophy behind the defense budget
allocation so first of all defense and
their procurement you know it coming
from a defense background
uh your friend Rahul will know it we
shared that background yes the
long-term perspective planning that the
defense has is really long time and they
go on fitting every year towards
achieving that long-term
goal and for each year it's not a
proportionate allocation towards that
longterm sometime it's more sometimes
it's less sometimes it's just about all
right and so on so it is the end goal
that your long-term perspective plan
which has to be achieved and in the
process allocations keep going up and
down in order that we get a complete
picture of how money is got to be
allocated for defense is where the
division happens pensions and salaries
the revenue is one account we don't incl
still about 52% of the we don't we don't
include that it may be 52% of the Total
Defense budget no that's that's a
committed one and we since believe it
should be where it is got to be and
after that is when you're looking at
replenishing the
existing lifespan of a particular Vector
life lifespan of a particular long-term
asset and then looking at just the
components and so and then within that
you're looking at how much is Army how
much is Navy how much is Air Force how
much is Coast Guard so it is not asive
we blindly give one chunk of amount and
say sorry that's the end of the story
you can do now what what we placed
emphasis in this vote on account is to
make Innovation driven procurement and
Manufacturing within India for at manbar
defense so you're driving money towards
greater Innovation within the country
that you're able to produce those
equipments which are critical for you
within India for that I made us separate
allocation so it is now a lot more
calibrated to the needs of each one of
them
it's not blanket give money do what you
want one of the big developments in the
international money markets this year
will be when JP Morgan includes Indian
government bonds in the uh Government
Bond index for emerging markets from
June uh we've seen that you've reduced
the fiscal deficit from the projected
5.9 to 5.8 now hoping to bring this down
to
5.1 how much how important is it for you
to send a message to International
rating agencies to improve India's
credit rate trting at this moment and
how are you looking at this inclusion
and all the billions of dollars that
flow into India after this see there are
two different things going into JP
Morgan's listing is one thing you are
going to get money which is going to be
less costly and it'll be almost a
default setup that it'll keep coming
once it is in the list and so
on that's one side yes it'll enable that
process from June let us say but the
other is about the credit rating
agencies am I bringing down the fiscal
deficit from 5.9 where it was expected
to be to 5.8 because I want a better
perspective shared with the F no it can
be so it can be a collateral but I'm
more aiming at getting India's Fisk a
lot more primed up a lot more toned up
so that it doesn't carry too much of
flab that you're not able to at any
point in time take that kind of a you
know decision making or give commitments
to better perform so discipline in
fiscal management is something which
Prime Minister Modi takes very seriously
even as a chief minister he's had a
record showing how he managed economy
finances within Gujarat some of the
states aren't following this kind of an
approach How concerned are you by the
kind of public indied we're seeing in
some of the opposition it is concerning
and we talk to them we try to sort of uh
help them out to rearrange their uh uh
fiscal But ultimately it is the state's
responsibility we can only be the good
Council we can't do anything more beyond
that but of course ultimately under
Constitution's article 293 we are going
to have to take the final call and
responsibility on that but that is a
very delicate play because we can't
encroach into the state's decision
making Finance Minister soon after the
budget Moody came out and taking this
point forward uh about our uh the rating
Outlook and it said India's debt to GDP
Still Remains High despite the fact that
you projected a decline 58.1% to 57.2%
in
fi25 are rating agencies missing the
point about the kind of fiscal
transformation that uh the Modi
government has been trying for the last
10
years it's good that you're saying it
and I've not said it but that's the
truth
look at the borrowing debt to GDP number
for developed
economies they are well beyond 200s and
300s well over 100 any
case their credit rating doesn't get
affected by the debt to
GDP so when mine is well with below 100
at 80 let us say but if it matters to
the rating agencies that my debt to GDP
is not above 100 I have no answers to
give it is not above
100 okay ma'am let's pick for a moment
about disinvestment you know you've got
some public sector unit uh companies
which are at different stages of
disinvestment there is no ambitious
Target for disinvestment there seems to
be a change in thinking so if you can
explain that and if and when you do come
back to Power uh how important is
strategic disinvestment as one of the
missions for the Modi government for you
personally as Finance Minister how
committed are we still to trying to get
government out of companies which the
government really got not to be
running I'll start with the fact that
I've stated it as a matter of
policy went through the parliament got
approved and came out 2122 budget that
we do believe that all sectors should be
open for private participation no sector
should be reserved for public sector
only
and even if public sector is present in
those core strategically important
sectors they will be minimal presence I
believe in it Prime Minister Modi
believes in it it is the policy approved
by the parliament of India now therefore
I will have to consolidate in those
sectors public sector presence or I will
where I can't amalgamate or bring
together or scale up I will have to get
out of some of them for which the
approval is obtained I will have to do
it but equally before I do it during the
time I'm waiting to do it I will have to
pay attention to the valuation of that
conf I can't allow it to languish and I
can't allow it to continue to languish
till before I throw them out or till
before I get out of them and when I want
to get out of them if I don't allow them
to flourish in the meanwhile the
valuation that I obtained from the
market is going to be trivial if
anything at all so we have for one I
want to be sure to tell the people of
India even if I've taken a call to
disinvest a complete a company
completely I'm attending to keep it in
its prime condition now and that is why
you find the public sector companies in
the stock market now performing much
better and giving better dividends to
all the shareholders we can be some of
it and others are also taking the
dividend from it the other way of also
looking at if disinvestment is happening
is when we have come down in the level
of holding that I have further letting
it into the market so that retail uh
investors would come in so the level to
which I hold my shares in a public
public sector company also is something
which you have to observe because I'm
slowly coming down in terms of the level
to which I'm holding shares in these my
question m' was about as far as a core
tenant of belief is concerned how
important is strategic disinvestment for
you personally and for this government
at this moment the manner in because we
saw Air India happen quite seamlessly
and you were able to get it out but we
are we aren't really seeing the same
sense of pace and urgency when it comes
to some of the other disinvestment
projects currently in the pipeline and
I'm kind of wondering when you see glad
to hear this from you Rahul before air
I was pillared when is it happening when
is it happening every time I met with a
journalist friend this would be the
question and at that time it looked as
if I'm sitting over it over a
century I'm glad to hear that now no as
I said it will happen our commitments
will be fulfilled and the core belief
that you keep asking me about that is
why I went back to tell you that it is
this government which went to the
parliament to say disinvestment is what
we believe in because other than the
core sectors there's no way in which we
need to be present as government and in
the core sectors it is because of
strategic interest Telecom unless I'm
there I won't be able to cover my first
Villages which are now called vibrant
Villages private sector wouldn't go
there but how would I give give them
connectivity I need to be there Railways
I need to be there like that our belief
is to have minimal presence uh FM just
one quick follow up on that is the
market and other analysts missing the
point that the dividends that come to
you from Central public sector under
takings or for the matter RBI which has
helped contain the fiscal deficit in
this budget's calculation as well that
is also in some ways revenue from the
assets that have been built by the the
market know it it is you journalists who
want to go asking me this question okay
enjoy it I I'll come to another point
and this is to do with the north south
narrative that uh keeps happening two
questions there and just to add uh data
here the tax Devolution in fi 24 ma'am
that you announced and we have seen that
Rose 16% Central transfers are equally
high at
15% yet there is this north south
narrative and some voices from the south
seem to suggest that the south is
getting a raw deal it contributes more
to tax Collections and the north takes
it away
how would you respond to that it's
entirely politically M
motivated not backed by by facts or data
and above all very
divisionary and encourages sist elements
it is being done deliberately is my
allegation I charge them with that
they're doing it
deliberately if that is the case that we
want to talk about look at the
Investments that are going to the South
not private government
why does the government of India invest
then it is because country as a whole
will have to leverage the strengths that
exist in the
country from one area one strength
minerals material all of them come do we
then allow that area to say without me
giving you coal without me giving you I
know nothing will move so give me the
entire earning is that the way we look
at
then if that is the way we have to look
at regions which give higher
Revenue within a developed state which
says I contribute so much Maharashtra
contributes a lot more can it say that
give me that much one second even within
Karnataka where the honorable deputy
chief Minister's brother has said look
we are not getting as much as we're
giving so it might mean that we'll have
to form a separate sou country out of
South India I'd like to ask him
bangaluru contributes to karnataka's
income much disproportionately higher
now if all citizens of bangaluru say
look we want to be a separate country
man be damned with your kalana Kara be
damned with your chitra what will the
government say there which is now in
power which is Congress government the
same can be for
Mumbai in Maharashtra Mumbai can say
sorry it's all my money Mumbai becomes a
separate country you go witha be your
own Marat be your own are we okay with
that kind of language are we okay with
that kind of a thought somewhere in in
the back of our
minds it's utterly
irresponsible and above all I think it's
done with a purpose to bring in that
element of you know doubt in the minds
of people who live in these regions to
say oh probably the government is
cheating us it's not giving us us s you
are you a elected responsible leader
sitting in the Lo SAA and there are few
others like
that believing in the constitution of
India are you speaking
responsibly is this the narrative you
want to put forth in the
public and is it true narrative if it is
true I can then say yeah you're speaking
the truth we'll have to look into
it is this the truth
where does it lead us
to utterly irresponsible but I think
this is the trend with which the
congress party is growing in the last 10
to 20 years we are seeing repetition of
the tu tu sympathies within the Congress
they went and stood in J with that gang
which wanted to break
India they are now speaking this
language from the south they supporting
parties which speak sist language the
DMK for instance they support them in
Tamil Nadu they speak that
language so what is this are we here by
the
Constitution or are we different
elements of break
India ma'am there's been some
conversation about senior ministers in
the Modi cabinet fighting a Lo SAA
election while of course that's
something the party will decide would
you like to put your hand up and say
give me a seat somewhere in Tamil NAD or
wherever it is that you prefer which
state would you prefer to fight from
probably Tamil NAD in my understanding
and would you like to do it would you
relish the prospect of getting out of
North block fighting a loab election you
know party like BJP it's not the person
who relases to do a BC it is the party
which says okay now you do this and you
may also want to relish it and we follow
it but would you relish that challenge
moving from what the party says
right okay now maam you know there was
an interview that I did with Professor
auram Rajan at Davos and I've been
wanting to ask you this question since
he
larger point was that the government the
Modi government at this moment makes it
seem as if we're on a 7% growth path and
that this is relative to what's
happening in the world very good he says
given our stage of economic Evolution we
should really be aiming for 9 10% he
ided me to ask government when I got a
chance uh that you know this is actually
our current growth prospects and
forecast are 2 or 3% lesser than what
you said while you were in opposition
and his charge is that just because we
can't find the ways of growing at 99 to
10% the government is now making it seem
as if 7% is the best that can be done
look at China at a similar stage of its
Evolution cycle look at the Spirit which
they were growing if India does intend
to become a vixit country we need to be
growing at 9 10% how would you respond
to raguram
rajin I would want to ask you should I
respond to him as raguram Rajan The
Economist or raguram Rajan the
politician answer will depend on
it no I want to say this first that's an
answer that I'm giving you
because raguram Rajan also had told us
that we shouldn't invest anymore in
manufacturing concentrate on
services but when he wants to talk on
China he would compare China has always
interested hugely in manufacturing now
I'm not imitating China we'll have to
find ways in which our own strengths can
be further
leveraged so that is one advice
earlier so I I find it
difficult to take raguram rajan's advice
also because he was here holding a very
responsible position as governor of
Reserve Bank of India the banks went
through
torment a
regulator looked the other way then
phone calls were going to the banks and
Banks were yielding to the phone calls
the regulator didn't tell them you will
yield only to the banking norms and not
the phone
calls so raguram Rajan make up your mind
when you speak to the government and
nudging the media to go ask the
government questions say first of all
look I'm now wearing my Economist hat
and sometimes I'm wearing my political
hat that might be easy for us to address
Finance Minister many decades ago and I
grew up and millions of Indians grew up
with the ROI Kara makan slogan and in
the last 10 years of modomics Roi
through the uh free food scheme for 800
million plus people and now this budget
announcing more expansion as far as
housing is concerned also a new scheme
for middle class housing hopefully to
address people who are on rent the Capa
is missing or should we look forward for
another word instead of Kapa in the RO
Kapa Maan phrase no Kapa is not missing
is something which the family can choose
to do if they are
otherwise benefited in terms of the
basic
necessities so it's not as if you're
going to take care of food but not
clothe no if that individual and his
family is empowered enough he they'll
take a call on how they want to spend
their money instead of I mean like I
wouldn't want to quote ma but wasn't it
Ma said look no good helping him to fish
today giving him fish in his hand give
him the skills to fish he will be able
to we are aiming at provide the basic
facility then give him access to
different opportunities he wants to do
his own business don't stifle him by
saying get me a collateral then I'll
lend you no collateral I'll lend you do
your business similarly if they are in
villages wanting more technology into
the fields we are giving the drones we
are training them so go do it
simultaneously looking at the gender
parity and so on
so aim of this government is to empower
the person to make his own decision so
is it Roa Finance because this budget is
also announced a longterm scheme for
financing financing has already happened
it's continuing to happen mudra Swan are
all financing so that will continue also
we will enable people who have
aspirations to become entrepreneurs to
get assistance from the bank now we're
coming towards the end of this interview
you've now presented six budgets I want
your sense of how you see your Evolution
as Finance Minister from year one to
year six everybody has their own take
and there's so many pink papers writing
constantly about every move you make but
when you look at the mirror and reflect
how how do you think you've evolved as
an economist as a finance minister as an
individual as a politic ician over these
six years gosh that that's very many I
can't answer all of
them uh well it's been a challenge and
also an opportunity to work in such an
environment and uh it's not just saying
it I honestly do feel very much from the
bottom of my heart to have a leader
under in the name of Prime Minister Modi
and work with
him I've worked in corporate
environments earlier the level of
professionalism the level
of
task tasking an individual and making
sure that performance is the only
criteria professionalism in work and
making sure that till the last minute if
guidance and handholding is required it
is provided being objective being we
need to deliver we need to deliver so
that sense of working in a team with the
guidance of the right kind of you know
assistance and not
patronage is immensely
satisfying r manal with mantal if you
had to
pick both were great and and there was
Commerce as well and commerce as well I
I've been very fortunate in that my
party and my prime minister have given
me opportunities to serve in each one of
these responsibilities this has been a
broad ranging interview for your
responses and for your time and for your
fiscal discipline in an election cycle
uh which is as rare as rare can be and
that's something that's now being looked
at internationally Finance Minister
thank you so much for speaking to India
today in business thank you appreciate
it let's see if you're back in July You'
almost indicated that I'll be back in
July this government will be back who
will be where I cannot that's not my
it's much beyond my pay R thank you so
much for your time appreciate thank
you hello and welome welcome the most
obvious impulse of any Finance Minister
heading into an election cycle is to
roll out the populist red carpet and yet
Finance Minister nirmala sitaraman chose
fiscal Prudence does this reflect a
sense of confidence about the Modi
government coming back to power a third
time is she sending a market to signal
to the international bond markets and
what's the economic Outlook from the
finance Minister's perspective from here
on to talk about all of this we're
joined at the North block at the finance
Minister's office by six-time budget
presenter Nala sitaraman Finance
Minister welcome and thank you for your
time Minister by my colleague business R
television's managing editor sidat
zarabi ma'am I want to start by getting
you to talk about the comparison between
this interim budget and the last couple
of interm budgets which happened just
before the announcement of Elections
there was always a lot of populism you
chose to stay away from that are you
deliberately sending out a message that
I'll be back in July and I'll do what I
need to at that time I don't need to do
anything right
now well the message about us coming
back is the way in which you all
reporting about things how the
government has performed how in the last
10 years those promises which were given
were
fulfilled
and on the ground actually people are
actually speaking about the work of this
government and not a whisper of
corruption so that's the message which
people are themselves giving which you
the media are carrying but I've taken
the interim budget as an interim
budget and asking for a wot on a just to
keep the business going of the
government is what it is meant for I've
done only that when you do a temperature
check of the Indian economy what is it
that gives you the greatest reason for
optimism and what is it that's giving
you nightmare or the most concern at
this
moment um
the optimism bit is because the power of
the word of
mouth people who have benefited from
government's
promises are speaking about it
themselves and they are cross the board
they don't belong to any one section one
region one state one language one
religion they are all
over and that gives trust in people's
mind people trust you will probably
trust your friends your neighbor your
peers your colleagues rather than
trusting a political leader by Nature
India is like that and therefore when
people say yes I've also got a house
here's the paper I've got the gas
connection what has come to my uh
tap and my sons are or daughters are
getting skills they are getting
recruited they going into you know Arm
Forces M colleges signic schools so that
power of that word of of mouth among
beneficiaries or potential beneficiaries
is the one which makes me feel that
people realize this is a government prom
which promises and delivers and the
prime minister is absolutely seized of
everything that is happening in the
ground that is one confidence the other
confidence try as they may the
opposition in the their rulle states as
well have not matched this kind of
performance and top it all with no one
getting any personal Peary
benefit not one scandal in 10
years the image of India fragile five
policy paralysis corruption at every
level has changed in 10
years you think people of India don't
recognize that so that's the confidence
Challenge and wor concerns you yeah
Challenge and worry more external Wars
abroad you know uncertainty in the red
sea fish Marine Lines getting
affected Transportation Supply Chain
disruptions those I think in the last 3
4 years if you can say with sense of
confidence uncertainty has become the
rule of the game we have to live with it
we have to factor in for it since you
speak about living with uncertainty and
factoring it in 10 years of modomics and
you said no scandal
why the need for a white paper uh on the
state of the economy that the Modi
government inherited why
now prime minister himself has spoken
about in 2015 or 16 he said then that
there were a lot of people suggesting to
him that he'd come out with a white
paper and he chose not to do it
then and he explained the reasons as was
available to him at that time he said no
look I'll put my nation first I don't
want to come up with with a white paper
which is going to reveal all that was
left for us to inherit and that would
only affect the investors confidence it
can affect the trust that the government
the people of India have in India's own
institutions so it's not the best thing
for me to do now so I won't do it
now but after 10 full
years and after 10 full years of us very
clearly delivering on our
promises taking Indian economy closer to
being the third largest economy
realizing it probably within a year or
two after we come back let us
say we are now in a safe position to say
to the people of India this is exactly
what we inherited this is what it took
for us to correct it and in 10 years if
this is the level of effort we've put
not just to restore it but to take it to
that height
it is this kind of a leadership and
decision making which we've given you in
the last 10 years now that you Ed us so
right time to bring it in I would think
m' there's a lot of conversation about
what's uh going right I want to use this
opportunity to talk about a couple of
areas of concern one is on Rural
consumption I was reading the earnings
reports of several of these fmcg
companies which seem to suggest
depending on which company you look at
at least a 20 to 30% decline in in rural
consumption a lot of left leaning
economists use this to suggest that
there is a high level of rural distress
as Finance Minister how do you look at
this concern that uh in the rural sector
when it comes to consumption a lot of
companies are actually seeing distress
how much of a concern is that for you
and how are you hoping to address
this I wouldn't just put them aside I
wouldn't say no I'm not worried about it
and I wouldn't say that their studies
are worth nothing no not at all I would
certainly give it my best of
attention but I'm not sure it is that 20
30% that you're talking about fmcb
companies do have um metrics which we
need to take seriously because it
indicates quick buying of durable goods
but equally it is not correct to say
that
rural distress is continuing because I
think there's a lot of shift in the way
in which rural economy is now going
through there's a lot of shift because
money is going in in the name of you
know one or the other scheme to every
family in the rural area I would dare
say this that there is no family left
without getting at least one or the
other scheme of the government so those
who deserve it rural economy is also
looking looking at a changing Paradigm
in
agriculture a lot of uh you know
commercial crops are coming in the
linkages through the E National
agriculture Market even today there are
media reports about how between
different markets in different regions
better rate is
actualized so farmers are now seeing
potential for them to move to different
crops the emphasis given to to the Shri
the millets the emphasis given to
Horticulture is finding newer markets
within their locality the urban centers
close by are benefiting by the
Horticulture reaching them locally and
in reasonable price so really it's no
longer wheat and rice economy it is a
lot more of horticulture Fisheries
livestock is gaining a lot of attention
also supported by the policy of the
government SGS which are now into value
Val addition in food and also with
mechanization of
Agriculture which is bringing the
monotony down not throwing people
out themselves are becoming centers for
business agriculture let's say a farmer
son or daughter sets up a business for
Lending Leasing and hiring out
equipments companies are coming in Into
The Villages saying we not all of them
want tractors but hes trying to DV
every such small agricultural equipment
is now Finding Traction for which their
their sons and daughters themselves are
setting up businesses so there's a lot
happening in rural areas Finance
Minister you uh gave a very interesting
uh definition of secularism and you
linked it to saturation of the
availability of all government schemes
expand on that is that now uh the new
definition that the Modi government is
pushing out for secularism because it's
a word that has drawn a lot of debate in
the past that's right and uh not just in
24 elections even in 2019 by which time
uila had reached good
Dimensions you had people belonging to
different communities particularly when
you talk of glass gas cylinders only
women come forward to talk about it men
think it doesn't matter to them because
ultimately the food has reach the table
how does it matter whether it is being
cooked in gas or anything else so men
tend to talk less about Ed women come
out to say yes I'm benefiting with the
gas
cylinder people who came out to say that
uula has helped me to bring a clean air
in my kitchen and I'm more efficient in
getting my food done belong to all
communities even at that time it was
observed by media observed by political
observers that Wala scheme's
implementation has proven that every
eligible person person gets it not just
the first charge going to one particular
section as it was narrated once earlier
by a prime
minister so that litmus test of te
secularism actually in action has been
felt even in 2019 now it's felt even
more so if secularism has to be
practiced you don't need to Pander to
religious beliefs if you're able to
across the board give everybody
everything you you are indifferent to
the person's Faith or religion but
making sure he or she is as good as the
other next door that's action secularism
in action ma'am let's spend a moment on
household savings which have been one of
the pillars of the Indian economy in
Years Gone by and now household savings
are set to be at a five decad low uh at
5.1% how how are you looking at the
aspect of Indian households seeming to
save much lesser than they have in past
decades and is that something that
you're okay with is that something that
concerns conclusion you can arrive
at househ saving lesser than before no
because as much as you talk about small
savings and quote numbers on it the only
option that small saving or people in
middle classes had for saving their
money and with some confidence was to
put it in like let's say post office
savings account which continues which is
good enough which can continue any
longer but you're also noticing since
2020 that because of Greater
transparency and greater availability of
information people are able to see which
are those performing companies they're
not even going through the rout of
mutual funds to understand how stock
market performs small saving in the name
of retail funding is coming into the
stock markets and coming through demat
accounts which are unique so I'm not
talking about the same person doing five
types of Investments new demat accounts
unique demat accounts tell you probably
many things which went to post offices
came are coming now into the market so
people are finding newer revenues to
save and probably better returns are
aced in those routs since we speaking
about the markets uh the stock market
regul recently put out a word of caution
with regard to uh you know a lot of the
trades that are happening are happening
in trading in the derivative segment in
F
Ando do you share that note of concern
with regard to the nature of how people
are trading in the markets that was uh
much higher than what it is now I would
think my concern that is much higher
earlier than it is now because there's a
lot of awareness being built by
Regulators to say that uh derivatives
and dealing in fno as you said can have
involve high risk and many people burned
their fingers uh by starting to operate
there young people who were the first
time entrance also burnt their fingers
so there was a lot of discussion about
it in one of our fsdc meetings uh
Regulators are now building a lot of
awareness and uh I would think that has
come into play now Finance Minister how
are you you've been chiding India Inc to
go out and invest to find the strength
of Hanuman and to invest in the India
story and for various reasons the kind
of secular investment cycle that you
were hoping for hasn't really kick
started you can see some green shoots in
some sectors but it's not an overall
investment cycle uh how are you viewing
because I I we were together at the
rashtrapati bav and you were telling a
member of India Inc to go out and invest
even further how are you looking at
India in in several sectors still being
in waitand watch mode assessing but not
committing fully to invest at this
moment is that now beginning to get a
little frustrating for you how are you
looking at investment appetite and
actual Investments apart from just the
talk but uh I would equally say that in
those Sunrise sectors which for which
we've announced P schemes and so
on you find private investment coming in
and coming in in significant numbers
so I really cannot say now as I said
earlier that hey you are anuma Hanuman
you start playing it is happening now
and I would think they very clear in
their heads that their Investments now
will probably go through the newer
sectors and they may want to build
capacities add capacities to the
existing areas of activity but many of
them are now looking at prospects in the
newer areas so it is happening but
happening much more in the newer sunrise
sector Finance Minister U two key
instruments of the government which have
focused on getting new manufacturing and
private investment the point that was
just made one of those schemes of 2019
the end date is 31st March 2024 the
concessional 15% rate for new
manufacturing uh companies along with
that you've given a host of PL schemes
two parts to the question one do you see
the need for continuing with that lower
15% rate eventually perhaps in the the
full budget and second uh does bi scheme
need to expand or at some point of time
the government will say we supported you
as much as we could now go on and do it
on your
own uh the answer to your second
question is not uh we've done it for a
few years so stop it now it's more to
ensure that India gets that lead in
those sectors in the sunrise areas so I
wouldn't time it by saying I've done it
for 2 years shut shop now that that will
not be my Approach my Approach would be
is it really getting rooted in India is
it sustainable and are these industries
really you know taking off so those will
be my measure before I take a call on
that so I would't rush to say I've done
it for 2 years the other is about uh
the reduced tax
rates as I said for many other things
this interim budget was not the time for
me to take a call on that so I'm not
taken a lot one of the critics we've
heard from the opposition finance
minister is that when it comes to social
sectors the percentage of government
outlays on education on health has come
down as a percentage of our GDP in the
years that this government has been on
power they level the acquisition that
while you're very focused on public
infrastructure uh that the amount of
money that should be set aside for
education and for healthare isn't
adequate and even the outlays that are
being made are not being fully spent
we're actually spending lesser than we
provision for how do you look at this on
the outlays not getting spent I may not
be the best person to answer I'll be
concerned as to why the hotel are not
getting spent but it'll be the
Departments and in particularly health
and education States also have a role it
is a concurrent list of items that we're
talking about when we talk about
education and health so it will depend
on how much absorption Happ happens in
the states how much the department is
able to push and so on so those factors
are totally out of my realm but I can
understand where they are and probably a
longer discussion can happen only on
those two uh issues um it's also not
right to measure expenditure on
education and health as being adequate
or not adequate it can never be adequate
I'll concede that any amount that I put
for Education will still think I mean
you'll think I'll think anybody will
feel more can be added and yes more can
be added there cannot be a second
thought on that but the fact remains as
I said also for one question earlier
somewhere else about capital expenditure
this time being not 30% in increase only
11%
increase there's after all a element
which is called absorption capacity you
can put ton loads of money somewhere and
the in the capex are condition was you
use it within 12 months I'll give you
next year but use what I've given you
now fully this year the absorption
capacity element makes many of them who
genuinely want to spend it after a point
not able to throttle it down within 12
months they would need 13 14 15th month
also but I'm sorry within 12 month it
hasn't happened fully so is the case
with education and health you may want
to put any number into the
outlay but eventually unless there's a
properly fitted Hospital you're not
going to be able to give additional
training to the staff and spend money on
that unless you have more medical seats
available you're not going to have
enough doctors coming into the hospitals
unless again it is spread all over the
country that's why at one point in time
I remember during my atbar announcements
we said no longer are we looking at
District level hospital now it has to go
to the Block Level so there are levels
and levels to which we need to now pad
with more efforts and resources so it's
not going to happen within one year
suppose I say I'm giving more enough
this year of the
GDP are they in a position to absorbed
the first layer is being set second
third and so on I can't STP at the fifth
level when these have not been done
Finance Minister since we are speaking
about allocations um explain the
philosophy on the defense allocation
you've been defense minister you've been
Commerce Minister and defense still
about 6 lakh CR the highest allocation
but some people say it's still 4.72%
year- on-year growth uh earlier than
that in the previous Financial year
there was a substantial increase what's
the philosophy behind the defense budget
allocation first of all defense and
their procurement you know it coming
from a defense background uh your friend
Rahul will know it we shared that
background yes the long-term
perspective planning that the defense
has is really long time and they go on
fitting every year towards achieving
that long-term
goal and for each year it's not a
proportionate allocation towards that
long term sometime it's more sometimes
it's less sometimes it's just about all
right and so on so it is the end goal
that your long-term perspective plan
which has to be achieved and in the
process the allocations keep going up up
and down in order that we get a complete
picture of how money is got to be
allocated for defense is where the
division happens pensions and salaries
the revenue is one account we don't
still about 52% of the we don't we don't
include that it may be 52% of the Total
Defense budget no that's that's a
committed one and we sincerely believe
it should be where it is got to be and
after that is when you're looking at
replenishing the existing
lifespan of a particular Vector life
lifespan of a particular long-term asset
and then looking at just the components
and so and then within that you're
looking at how much is Army how much is
Navy how much is Air Force how much is
Coast Guard so it is not as if we
blindly give one chunk of amount and say
sorry that's the end of the story you
can do now what we placed emphasis in
this vot on account is to make
Innovation driven procurement and
Manufacturing within India for atbar
defense so you're driving money towards
greater Innovation within the country
that you're able to produce those
equipments which are critical for you
within India for that I made a separate
allocation so it is now a lot more
calibrated to the needs of each one of
them it's not blanket give money do what
you want one of the big developments in
the international money markets this
year will when JP Morgan includes Indian
government bonds in the uh Government
Bond index for emerging markets from
June uh we've seen that you've reduced
the fiscal deficit from the projected
5.9 to 5.8 now hoping to bring this down
to
5.1 how much how important is it for you
to send a message to International
rating agencies to improve India's
credit rating at this moment and how are
you looking at this inclusion and all
the billions of dollars that flow into
India after this see there are two
different different things going into JP
Morgan's listing is one thing you are
going to get money which is going to be
less
costly and it'll be almost a default
setup that it'll keep coming once it is
in the list and so
on that's one side yes it'll enable that
process from June let us say but the
other is about the credit rating
agencies am I bringing down the fiscal
deficit from 5.9 where it was expected
to be to 5.8 because I want a better
perspective shared with the F no it can
be so it can be a collateral but I'm
more aiming at getting India's Fisk a
lot more primed up a lot more toned up
so that it doesn't carry too much of
flab that you're not able to at any
point in take that kind of a you know
decision making or give commitments to
better perform so discipline in fiscal
management is something which Prime
Minister Modi takes very seriously even
as a chief minister he's had a record
showing how he managed economy finances
within Gujarat but some of the states
aren't following this kind of an
approach How concerned are you by the
kind of public indicted we're seeing in
some of the opposition it is concerning
and we talk to them we try to sort of uh
help them out to rearrange their uh uh
fiscal But ultimately it is the state
responsibility we can only be the good
Council we can't do anything more beyond
that but of course ultimately under
Constitution's article 293 we are going
to have to take the final call and
responsibility on that but that is a
very delicate play because we can't
encroach into the states decision making
Finance Minister soon after the budget
Moody's came out and taking this point
forward uh about our uh the rating
Outlook and it said India's debt to GDP
Still Remains High despite the fact that
you projected decline 58.1% to 57.2% in
fi25 are rating agencies missing the
point about the kind of fiscal
transformation that uh the Modi
government has been trying for the last
10
years it's good that you're saying it
and I've not said it but that's the
truth look at the borrowing debt to GDP
number for developed
economies the they are well beyond 200s
and
300s well over 100 any
case their credit rating doesn't get
affected by the debt to
GDP so when mine is well below 100 at 80
let us say but if it matters to the