[Music]
okay good morning guys so today we're
filming a campus tour of our school
because when we applied literally
there's nothing on the air
and its really old so I wanted to show
you guys our school also like we go to
like one of the best beautiful campus is
school so like it's interesting to see
just to like you know be jealous but
also like if you're applying like here
you go so let's get started so this is
the front of the school the sign when
you walk in and then this is like the
main part you go into so yeah we'll walk
up this way
so this is just a little grassy area
this is like facing the outside of our
school so those apartments over there so
when you get older you can move there or
if you find a way to move off campus
freshman year then that's what you can
do also
okay this lighting is terrible but it's
a requirement to live on campus for two
or two years so freshman's offer you
have some on campus will show you guys
the freshman dorms cuz like sophomore
dorms if you go here you'd figure that
out so over here is the alumni send
Alumni Center cookbook and then this is
our dining hall our only dining hall
that we have will take you guys inside
of there and then there's also like a
couple other things in that building
that will show you and then this is like
the main entrance when you come in here
you go here so across the street this is
another view that you guys couldn't see
it's like mountainous it's really pretty
guys and also today's a nice day so this
is you can sit outside of the dining
hall here and then here's a fellow USD
suit so yeah this is art we're about to
show them the dining hall yeah yeah SLP
yeah so this spot right here you can sit
outside and eat if that's like what you
want to do there's a million chairs
awesome people don't really sit out here
like sometimes sometimes yeah but it's a
nice day like those people will ya
but yeah so then this is the outside of
it sometimes there's like a food thing
here during dinner
like you yeah good I'm vegetarian so I
can't say but a lot of people say yeah
I've never been there
yeah okay so we're going to go inside it
actually is really loud with him
[Music]
go
yes I'm doing a campus tour because
there's not one on the internet and
write net food
I'm feeling a blogger
this is a campus tour oh yeah I know
we're making the rounds because this is
not on the like Internet so I wanted to
thank you so these are the different
food stations we have a beacon station
if you probably came here one less
that's not it right now this is like
breakfast brunch so this is the top part
of our dining hall you can also sit up
here and then you can look down on
everyone who's eating
[Music]
so yeah they have a bunch of snacks here
they have snacky things for like drinks
and stuff so like coming here before
studying at the library then I move
those up like hot food in here but you
can get this
so good and then you can also get it mac
and cheese and then you can get they
also have like a little section where
you can buy it apparel but I don't know
anyone that buy stuff up here but you
know you can get sandwiches and there's
gelato and then you can get coffee up
here as well also up here you can see
down into the dining hall
which is pretty cool you can set up here
if you wanted to but I don't never set
up people so I don't think so yeah okay
so our students store you can also buy
like Apple products like you buy
yourself a laptop or like an Apple watch
and I think they have like lochia mini
Genius Bar over there where if you're
having problems with like your monitor
you can get it fixed so so explain where
we are
and then
[Music]
there's a bunch of different clubs up
here so there's like the BSU as there
like things are building there's the you
FMC there's the woman's Commons that
lgbtq+
yeah
[Music]
creative so do we
Part C the
to do that so you can sit out here - I'm
like if you want to do homework or just
like chill up here no one really cares
what you do so this is outside of SLP
the building that we were just in our
dining hall something library mostly God
student study in the law library but as
undergrads were allowed to go in there
except during their finals week we
thought study in there but most the time
you can go in there and it's really
quiet like they have like basically in
all silence policy where and the other
library you don't have to be like quiet
yeah yeah like people sometimes you can
like yeah it's so yeah this is the rest
of our time where you can sit out here
and eat and a lot of people do sit out
here and eat like that is the theme this
was where the student store was so if
you came out those doors it leads you
out here so there's a fire pit I can't
speak those fire pits so at night these
will turn on and then there's lights up
here that will turn on as well and you
can just sit here by the fire chill it's
pretty nice so this is Frank's lounge
they have a bunch of like sports games
on all the time people watch like the
Super Bowl in here
yeah basically you could just chill in
here play some cool play foosball you
could study in here you can also change
those channels usually it's sports but
one time there's the Kardashian so side
note guys you can also buy really good
smoothies in here and make your own ah
Sables and Froyo so yeah that's a good
thing okay so this is just walking along
our campus this is like the fire pits
were right there so then continuing
along here um this this part is called
like the you sees the University Commons
and there's a lot in this building
there's like they have like it's like
two big forum kind of internship fairs
and like if someone's doing like a big
presentation it'll be in there so
there's a lot going on yeah they have
the bank is like downstairs and you go
downstairs if you have problems with
like your schedule or registering and
like or financial aid like there's a lot
more important stuff yes but I mean if
you get it they'll tell you all that I
know you guys don't care so think so
there's also a tram that you can take
that takes you basically around the
entire campus there's different versions
of the trim but you just make sure you
hop on the right one and it could take
you basically like to your dorm if
you're a freshman or like sophomore
dorms it takes you there or if you're
going to the gym I get to drop you off
like right there so it's really
convenient um this is just it looks
really green outside
okay so this building right here is
smaller hole it is a freshman dorm slash
classes are in there as well the first
and the second floor our classes and
then the third fourth fifth I think they
have a sixth floor is dorms but all
freshmen yeah so this is a place I don't
know really what this is but you can sit
over here and there's like places to sit
like a long and here as well and it's
just really pretty there's a fountain
it's just really nice to just chill
before class especially the building
over there is also the classroom
building so it's nice to sit in here if
you have classes and either one of those
buildings yeah let's go into more harm
okay um I don't want to say this is what
a typical classroom looks like but this
is more of a like large lucky yeah so go
to the windows because most classrooms
do have a view from what I'm thinking of
especially like on this side of campus a
lot of them are a lot nicer expand but
you can see like down into like but yeah
we'll go down there but it's like a
courtyard area that you can chill oh
this is just the back road just so
here's Maher right here and we came down
those steps and then we're just walking
along the road it's really empty today
because today is a Saturday so like
usually campus is like a little bit more
crowded but honestly our school like
unless it's like passing periods for
classes it's really not that common yeah
it's pretty nice um this is the male
center right here so like you just get
emails every time you get a package or a
letter and then you come here to pick it
up and look at it for you okay so this
is um I almost don't know what this is
called this is like a field or something
um sometimes they'll have little events
out here like for yeah Greek life and
then sometimes clubs will have little
events on this line I'm on this side
this is the health center very important
this is a part of the building maher
that we were just in with all of the
dorms and the classes so yeah the health
centers in there they're pretty pretty
helpful in there they you can sit
outside to do whatever you want
you can eat out here yeah um so this
building right here
are not building it's just a part it's
like the bottom part of mockers so like
if you're in Maher you can literally
take the stairs now
yes so this is a Roma's is it open okay
so this is a Roma's I probably will
insert a picture over Alma's because
it's really cute inside I didn't want to
film on a school day because it's just
loud and like you wouldn't be able to
hear anything but yeah it's really cute
in there you can also sit outside here
and eat you didn't sit here in a chance
and then right across is our church so
our Immaculata which I will explain in a
second as we make our way over there
this is coming off of the Roma's & Maher
and then you have another little field
again that can be used for oh yeah there
are little quirks on campus like we'll
have some like free stuff which is
really cool another fountain and it's
really pretty here like this just looks
so gorgeous
honestly our campus is so beautiful it
actually it shocks me oh can you open up
so this is the Immaculata building right
here is very important because it has
the financial aid office which like you
can go when the school doesn't give you
enough money and just like fight your
case to get more money yeah so that's
pretty important they have a bulletin
board right outside of the financial aid
office with a bunch of jobless listings
so like if you ever if you have a car
here it's a lot easier it's a lot of
them are like not on campus it'll be
like parents might are like oh my Sunday
it's a French tutor or my daughter needs
a math tutor and you could sign up for
that so that's pretty cool yeah yeah so
let's go continue our journey so yeah
this is like I don't know like the
purpose of these stairs but it just
looks nice you people sit out here all
the time yeah and then there's weird is
lucky yeah I want to give the view from
here so this is nice during Christmas
time they put up a huge Christmas tree
right here which is really cute and they
decorated the whole Krampus for
Christmas which is cool the perks of
being a Catholic school they really care
about Christmas so this is the other
half of campus yes come on cheese Plaza
is over there but we're gonna make our
way down man um we're not gonna show you
these buildings right here because um
it's the nursing and that's not anagram
but these are like not relevant to you
right now so but we'll show you guys the
other buildings so this is usually the
typical walk to class
so over here we have a founders Hall or
yeah yeah founders and then Kamino
they're connected but I'll show you guys
the connection
this is also an all-girls dorm and then
Kamino is all boys but they're connected
and then also out here I always sit out
here to do homework it's really nice and
then they have like the big chairs and
you can sit in those little chairs there
no this is entering the camino and
founder's oh it's really pretty in here
so camino is on this side and then
founders is on that side and then
there's also back there is an auditorium
and on time yeah and founders has its
own chapel it does yes
so there's another church but it's not
as used as they Immaculata the big one
that we showed you yes this is really
pretty you could also sit out here as
well our campus is designed to look
really nice so like you'll see a lot of
things that you're like why is it there
we don't know either so you can sit out
here this is like first floor of Caminos
all classrooms yes and then the second
floor is like the guys dorm so yeah um
but like guaranteed you will have a
class plus if you will have a class in
either Camino or founders I don't know
anyone that's never had a class in here
cuz a lot of the language classes are in
here and you meet you pass language so
it'll be there
those aren't like the vet commune
founders aren't the nicest buildings but
they're there
like it cuz I think you're look like the
kameen bros they caught ya and I keep
it's all the guys founders girls thank
you guys like I'll get really close so a
lot of people who live here say they
like it but I wouldn't I
yeah I if you're gonna pick a dorm I
don't recommend this one but I mean like
it looks to you if you want to live with
all girls if you want to live with like
all girls are all guys up to you yeah um
so this is where you could during normal
times of the weeks and days when there's
not an event people just kind of sit out
here yeah the lounge out here a lot of
times one of the frats has dogs so
they'll just like sit over there and you
can play with their dogs it's really
cool and then when there's like certain
events like club fairs and stuff they'll
have them out here we're reaching kind
of near the end of campus because
honestly the campus is not big owl like
it takes you maybe like 15 minutes to
walk from where we started to all the
way to the end which is really fast in
my opinion and that's like kind of
leisurely walking some people do it in
10 minutes so yeah you can do it in 10
minutes so it doesn't matter this
building right here do you want to
explain clock I don't even
like business so if you're like business
major or business classes like me or
like probable classes are it's a nice
building it is this is just like the
view from the other side of collages
Plaza really nice getting a little cold
because it's windier down here because
we're getting closer to the ocean so you
can also sit out here as Hawks tuning
and then there's another fountain down
there guys wow what a concept
okay let's go to the library because
that's really cool actually um so this
is Camino sound yeah Camino and founders
and then right next to it is the library
it's called Copley or Coakley I honestly
don't know and I don't think anyone
really knows there's ever infinite
different ways so you can also sit out
here as well there's a lot of places to
sit and chill on campus which is really
nice
so that was the library we didn't really
show too much because it was there's
people in there and we tried to show you
this one room called the Harry Potter
Booya but there was an event in it
but if you look up like Harry Potter
room or like library on the Internet of
us you'll see it it's a really quite fat
areas like for really quiet study I'm
not as quiet as the law library as we
mentioned before buts so really really
quiet and then the main part you could
kind of like whisper to your friend yeah
but like overall the library is not a
place for social I think like if you
want to talk and study you could
literally just sit outside of the
library right there and talk so yeah
let's continue our journey so this is
essentially the end of campus like these
buildings that's basically as far back
as campus goes you would just go down
this hill with your car and you exit out
away but I mean this is basically a
student wise so this building is called
mother Ruth Lee their classes inherit
plus but I had my readiness like
freshman year writing
yeah so nice but we'll show you croc
which is right there and they're kind of
laid out the same way this is the view
from the back of mother Rhodes Lee which
honestly is so nice like guys like come
on like this is insane the oceans
literally right there that little blue
line yeah that's the Pacific Ocean it's
the baby okay whatever it leads out into
the ocean yeah
so this we don't actually have to walk
all the way down here cuz it's close but
back here it's called Bert's Bistro and
as ways you can get food on campus it's
usually open from like lunchtime to
really dinner like think it closed up
five or six um yeah they have some
burritos of burgers the burgers are so
good um good smoothies actually really
good smoothies they know how bagels oh
yeah they do Vegas yeah just like
they've sushi Annie like sushi boy yeah
pokeballs and like sushi rolls yeah
like drinks so yeah it's a good place to
eat yeah and there's also chairs over
there and then you sit outside and then
you can look at the ocean I mean come on
like what are you doing okay so we're
gonna show you guys croc this is a Joan
B Kroc building and then this is La
Palma which is attached to it
and here's another fountain guys oh
here's a little hummingbird so cute but
here you can also sell outside guys we
have like 50 fountains on this campus I
don't know why it looks nice and then
there's a lot for my I think Bob bomb is
probably close Champa
blob was in one of my vlogs my previous
vlog I put La Paloma in there so if
you're really curious to know what it
looks like it's on there
yeah I I always like daydreaming class
it's so bad huh yes if you go to class
in here it's really nice like you'll
want to come to class because the
building is just so nice and like you
just feel happier yeah this is literally
the prettiest part of campus it's
honestly so beautiful we can walk around
this side actually and show you guys but
it's just so like so pretty like why is
this here I don't know but it's really
nice so this is actually now because
that was not here this is a picture with
my brother and me on it oh okay I'm
lying too
so this is just like the end of campus
you can connect she's like yeah like all
of San Diego basically cuz we're in a
very central location
there's like the main stuff if you're
not going out on campus there's a bunch
of food down there yes that's like the
way you go to go to the beach yes it's
just so pretty
sandy knows where it's on shyly I've
never had a class in here such I'm
putting up wait this looks so nice oh my
god
[Music]
Wow another yet another beautiful view
you can lose some garden back here and
fun fact the plants and stuffs like
swirls so it forms a teammate helix
did you away oh my gosh look so cool
yeah oh wow okay go off go so yeah this
is another view I mean it's just nice
like and I've eaten back here like a
couple times because the library is
literally like two minutes away like
it's literally a walk across the street
so I've liked studying at the library
come back here to eat take a break and
then walk back to sunny so nice
yeah this is really nice and all of your
science classes would be in this
building you don't have but most most to
all if you're not a science major and
you're just taking the basics it should
be in here
on to the next so this is kind of just a
back route this is where we just came
from this building right here shyly and
then there was la paloma which really
good food they have like breakfast all
day and sandwiches and salads and
noodles and those have a coffee shop in
there too yeah so this is Rockaway I'm
also parking on campus
you cannot just park anywhere you want
yeah if you need you can park after 7:00
yeah yeah but before that
for
allowing people who have
yes also benches over here that you can
sit it'll look out see the view really
nice
yeah I look you think I had a costume
here no my goes low huh they're all
connected but this is just kind of the
middle of two buildings we're like below
ground no us you could say I have my
computer science class in here building
TVs perspective where er that is ma her
Hall which was the building that we the
first like dorms we showed you the
freshman dorms yeah I've thought I here
before before class yeah probably
but it's really nice you didn't have
like computer labs just take our word
for it here's some stairs yeah actually
yeah it is quite done huh this is the
view walking back I know it's so nice
that's like the law school building
that's really all thanks it's for
graduate students oh yeah that is
relevant for undergrad that's not oh and
this is the football field it's kind of
from a weird angle and I'm literally
shouting because we're right next to
like a street the main street but this
is the football field it was kind of
zoom in here you can see they're playing
football I don't know why because
football seasons over base they also
play soccer on here and rugby so it's a
multi-purpose field and that down there
is missions where
we lived last year like freshman dorms
and then up there's like the gym and
stuff and then that's up there's where
we live now so as you can see up this
way is a main campus that was where the
dining hall was the very first thing
this is like a parking structure where
I'm a few live admissions you can park
in there and then along here and then
here are our first set of dorms so this
is missions B it's a freshman dorm
there's a lot of different buildings and
you can live in either one missions is
definitely the best place to live in my
opinion so this is just sort of what it
looks like here there's various
different buildings so this is missions
a this is another this is where I lived
with me and my friends we lived in
missions a and then there was missions B
over there so this is missions a
missions I there's also like in missions
there's like a little park thing down
there that you could chill out I know
this is a view that you have in missions
a if you get placed on this side like up
against the wall but yeah you can
basically see like everything there's
the ocean
right along there
and there's main campus out there it
looks very far but it's really not
there's like a little pathway along the
side here that can take you all the way
up to main campus yeah this is mission a
and it's really cool I honestly think
this is the best dorms and the dorms are
updated and they're really big so it's
it's a good choice
now this building here's missions
crossroads and it's basically where you
can go in there and you can study
there's laundry at the bottom and it's
just like a good place to get anything
you need and it's right by both of the
dorms in missions so it's really
convenient so what this building here is
a sophomore dorm so these were this is
missions I this is the sophomore dorm
and then in here it's closed right now
but this is mish CAF and it's just like
a little cafe it's pretty good they have
acai bowls bagels sandwiches salads
basically anything smoothies so yeah
look along this way this is just more of
missions be over here so this is another
dorm you can live in
I always forget about the storm it's
called sand one last year when I was a
freshman it was a sophomore dorm and
this year it's all freshmen so it's kind
of cool cuz you get your own balcony
also guys I forgot to mention that on
the top of where mish CAF was where the
little cafe was is a gym so there's two
gyms on campus there's the one
admissions and then there's like the
main gym but yeah so that was Sam one
missions be the gym and the missions a
is like over there okay cool
continue the journey this is essentially
the same view I showed you guys before I
showed you guys from missions a so they
kind of look out on that angle and then
this is coming from just an angle from
the parking lot but it's really cute
because you can like sit up here on a
little bench and just look out and it's
so pretty like guys come on
and it's very green because it's been
raining here a lot but I mean look at
this it's just magnificent and you can
always see the Sun setting over there
which is really cute too at night
yeah so those are a bunch of random
homes up there we're gonna continue on
display walking through the parking lot
but like if you come to school to USC
for one thing you should come for the
view so I want to mention that this is a
Canyon a lot of people go on runs down
here walks because there's a pathway
carved out and it's relatively safe so
if you enjoy running and stuff like that
then this would be really good for you
as well so right here is our gym yeah I
don't know import it say about that I'll
insert pictures of X I don't want to go
in and like record and disturb people
but yeah so this is a gym and also like
a basketball court is in there as well
but we use the vassal court for like
other things too sometimes so this is
our field the baseball fields our team
is actually pretty good and then on the
other side of the baseball field there's
another field down there and it's
basically the practice field for all the
sports that would use so one of the last
few stops on our little tour is we have
a pool and honestly anyone keeps the
pool I must start like some practice
time but they also have chairs where you
can just round out here and it's really
nice and then this building here if you
do any intramural sports you would play
them in here and so it's really cool
like anywhere basketball I'm like like
volleyball and then soccer is played
elsewhere but
yeah so I think this is one of the best
perks because you can honestly all the
time you can lounge by the pool because
the weather is always so nice so yeah
this building can also is also
essentially our rec center so if you
want to take any like yoga classes
ballet classes dance classes like most
of the time they would be in this
building up here so I'll give you a
perspective of where I am as you can see
so here's the football field and there's
main campus and then this is the
building we're just not where the pool
is and everything so guys that concludes
my tour of USD I hope you guys like the
video be sure to like it and subscribe
and leave a comment down below on any
questions you have and I'll be sure to
answer them and I'm also making a
separate video on tending snow before
you come to USD so look out for that
yeah
okay bye guys see you next video
[Music]