guys if you think that you have an
average profile this video is for you
I'm going to be telling you first off
what an average profile looks like to me
personally and then I'm going to be
telling you exactly what kind of
universities should be in your short
list if you have this profile now an
average profile is not a bad profile
understand this but it is not the
topmost profile either out there hence
if I had to put it I would say that an
average profile is pretty much quite
decent it's a decent profile it's a good
profile but it's not the best it's not
the worst I'll give you two examples the
first one is an engineer he has a cgpa
of eight zero years of work X that means
no work experience yet and he has one
research paper that he's able to publish
in any random conference version now the
second example I have for you is a
management professional she has a cgp of
7.5 she has about 3.5 years of work
experience and one research paper now
again you might say that hey you know
these are a little bit above average or
something but I would say that most
applicants that you work with most
applicants have a profile like this and
hence I wanted to make a video for you
guys
so what are the best 10 universities in
the US that I would recommend for you
guys with the highest internal
investment that you can genuinely get
into let's begin and guys remember these
are not ranked so I would not say that
the number one that I'm giving you in
this list is the best I'm not saying
that the number 10 is the worst no
that's not the case they're just 10
universities that you may want on your
list
[Music]
the first one in my list would be North
Eastern University if you look at this
scatter plot right here which represents
Admissions rejections and applications
of applicants who have registered on our
website you can see that a lot of people
apply to Nu first off it's a very
popular University and all kinds of
profiles have been getting admits but
let me tell you it's not very easy to
get an admit as well in a news so you
will see a lot of rejections as well but
why I chose Nu for you today is number
one due to its location Advantage Boston
a lot of jobs around there in the
Massachusetts area a lot of great
schools out there including Harvard and
a lot of places where you can go for the
campus hiring also for the on-campus job
periods that happen the number two thing
why I chose Northeastern is that it's
the best university I would say in the
US number one for Co-Op options what a
co-op Co-op is alternating semesters you
study you work you study you work that's
how it goes and that's why I would say
you should have Northeastern in your
list let's move on to University number
two
and that would be for the University now
this University would be the perfect fit
for the ambitious portion of your short
list as you can see here on this scatter
plot a lot of people do get rejected but
quite a few we have seen even with lower
gpas and an average profile have also
gotten accepted to point you Purdue has
an excellent Market reputation and its
location may not be the best but with
this reputation I am sure that I have
not seen even one person who has gone to
Purdue from us at least who has not
gotten a job at the end of their degree
the next one again to be added to your
ambitiousness over here would be Duke
University now Duke University is not
just great in management programs but
also stem programs if you're studying
engineering if you're studying tech
there could be one of the best
universities you can go to it's got a
decent enough location and a great brand
name so you will not have any issues
getting a job
number four on my list would be Texas A
and M the college station campus that's
the one I'm talking about guys now if
you see in the chart right over here in
scatter plot you can very easily see
that if you have a GPA around eight or
eight plus Texas A M would accept you in
most cases just by seeing the chart you
can kind of draw a line between cgp 8
and above to see that most of the cgp8
plus applicants are being accepted also
did you know that if you're applying to
any of the Texas universities you have
the Texas competitive scholarship
available that means if you're able to
secure at least a thousand dollar in
scholarship for graduate applicants and
Furniture graduates is four thousand but
we will secure that you are eligible for
in-state tuition that means your tuition
on an annual basis is just about 15 to
18 000 not more than that at any
University in Texas I can tell you
that's why I would add Texas A M to my
list and we've actually sent a lot of
students with the scholarship to Texas A
M and many other schools in Texas
University number five
ASU Arizona State University I'm gonna
tell you a few pointers here extremely
popular of course the university is very
popular you can see how many people have
been applying on our website itself a
lot of people are getting admits as well
as you can see apart from that two more
things that you might be interested in
great location great parties both are
pretty great that means you'll have a
good life you'll have the most amazing
time at the University and there will be
no dirt of opportunities University
number six
New York University no matter which
campus you're going for it's good for
engineering it's good for management
it's good for finance you know why great
location that's what it Fosters the job
opportunities for any of these fields
would be incomparable if you're going to
invite you on the scatter plot here you
can see and try to understand what kind
of applicants get accepted but I've seen
most applicants with decent average
profiles would be able to get to NYU the
next one on my list
is SUNY Buffalo this is the best
university in the State University of
New York system as you can see with the
admits and rejects you can probably add
it to the safe or the moderate region of
your shortlist what this University will
give you again is a great location with
great opportunities with Finance
engineering or management so I would go
with it hands down if I have not been
able to get a better University because
we've returned our investment repair is
going to be great number eight and for
this one we're going back to Texas my
friend and that is
[Music]
UD Dallas University of Texas the Dallas
campus again as I explained the Texas
competitive scholarship is something
that you will be able to Avail with UTD
another Factor over here UDD has a lower
tuition than most other universities out
there in the whole of the US and a great
ranking in management and engineering
programs both so if you're in one of
these fields you may want to Target your
team remember guys in the last two or
three years what we've been seeing is
that UDD has started to become a little
bit more GPA Centric that means even
though the startup plot over here will
show quite a lot of people have been
accepted with six seven gpas that's
really not happening anymore so that's
something you might want to look into
University number nine over here would
be
San Jose State University now why is
this one on my list the reason is that
it's within 15 minutes from the Silicon
Valley it's very close that means
there's an immense amount of
opportunities right there there's a
major location advantage that you can
use and personally I would not skip out
on it from at least adding it to my
safer list of universities the ranking
is not that great but the location
really takes away the position Point
number 10 is going to be mostly like a
safety School
so I would call this Stevens Institute
of Technology as you can see most of the
people who have applied have been able
to get admits there's barely any
rejections but what I can tell you about
this University is that most of the
alumni have been able to secure jobs so
as for me at least this deserves a spot
on the safe list so guys those were the
10 universities that you may want to
focus on if you have an average or a
little bit of an above average profile
if you like this video make sure to
subscribe to the channel and share it
with the people who need to know and
also sign up on vangread.com for more of
these amazing statistics there's a lot
more where this came from thank you so
much for watching this and I'll see you
in the next one and of course you can
always connect with me on my Instagram
if you ever need until then goodbye
[Music]