here we are after the long wait we are
going to be giving you a timeline for
spring 2025 everything you need to do
right from today to the point you send
in your applications and later is in
this video all you need to do is give me
5 to 10 minutes of your attention and
I'll cover everything you need to know
with my experience of more than 5 years
and sending 5,000 plus students overseas
to almost any part of the world that you
can think of all right
the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to come back to ymg grad.com
right we can go onto the Articles page
here and in the Articles search for
timeline now there's a fall timeline and
there's a spring timeline we're going to
go on to the spring timeline and while
there's everything detailed over here in
this article we're not going to go over
it in this video what I want to do is I
want to open up this image in a new tab
and I want to focus on this today with
you I want to do this oneon-one
everything you need to know is really in
this image itself all right so we move
forward with the timeline and this
starts from February that's great
because this video is being made in
January towards the end of January
essentially so that's great right the
first thing over here that it says is
that you start preparing for GR and tofl
but take this with a grain of salt
understand who you are what your
requirements are maybe you're going for
an MBA in that case you should take
instead of the gr you should take GMAT
right maybe you're going for Canada in
that case you should instead of tofl you
should take um Al right it depends from
a case by case perspective but whatever
your tests are you have to take them
usually there will be one to two tests
if you're going to the US there will be
two right if you're going overseas and
you're pursuing MBA there will still be
two otherwise there will be one in most
cases right you understand your test
first you need to know the minimum
requirements of the universities you
check them out for any University you'll
find out your test all right but mostly
you guys are going to be taking GR and
tofl or G and El and whichever you know
one of these combinations you do you're
going to be fine no matter where you
want to go in the worldall this
combination works generally very well
right um moving forward the other thing
you need to understand is what do you do
from February
itself when do you finish it so you
start preparing for the G and tofl in
February but you take your test Max to
Max right over here you can see Max to
Max by May to June okay we're going to
focus on this element by element I don't
want you to get stuck in the hotch Pod
right you start the test preparation and
by you can say May or June your test
should be finished off okay that's the
instruction here now that does not mean
that you cannot take your test earlier
you can finish them off in March you can
finish them off in April but finishing
off of course means that you get good
scores that you can actually showcase to
universities all right so finish the
them off in that while by the way did
you know that if you sign up on ymg
grad.com
slofer if you complete this page you
will get a lot of free study material
for you name it gr tofl Duolingo ALS
GMAT all kinds of tests and you'll also
get samples of Sops and L so make sure
you do that you should be signed up on
our website you will get these samples
right to your email delivered okay uh
paid study material which is at a
discount can also be found on this
material link where you will get up to
70% off on some of the most popular
study material all right but free study
material should be good enough to start
with okay moving forward that's your
test right the next thing you want to do
is you want to make sure that you are
continually improving your profile
throughout so that the definition of
improvement of your profile is different
from person to person now if you're
working with us and you know you can
work with us from right now itself we
will what we like to do is and this can
be done by you as well that's why I'm
telling you that don't think this is an
advertisement you want to work with us
great otherwise this is for you
understand this listen you go ahead take
a look at some of your seniors right on
our platform also it's free you can
check out their profiles you can even
chat with them if you want right take a
look at their resumes take a look at
what they had on their resume that you
do not have on yours and these should be
people who are getting to your dream
universities you know look at their
profiles if on our platform itself you
can do that kind of research you can
basically look at people's profiles you
can understand okay if uh my goal is to
get into USC then okay what kind of
people were getting admits from USC in
the past you take a look at their their
profiles you take a look at what kind of
cgpa they had what kind of resume they
have if you open up their profile right
here you can open up the you know resume
as well if you want for many of these
people right so you do all of that
research by yourself now when you have
actually done it you would know what's
missing on your resume and what that
means is now you have the power to
actually actually acquire all of those
things that were missing on your profile
before right that's what we do for you
as well we tell you hey you focus on
your tests we focus on your applications
we do the research for you we we see
what's missing we let you know so that
you can work on it now normally for
engineers if you're an engineer or if
you're going in the field of Mis
meem even MBA many times what matters a
lot is research work so you can focus on
adding that and you can even find people
for adding that on our website again so
we have basically built everything you
can go on discussion say I want to
publish a research paper in this field
who's interested in joining me and then
people will reply over here like that
right now this is free you can do that
all by yourself if you want to basically
publish it to us then you can create a
research group over here this is
chargeable this is not free but you will
find people directly and this will
actually happen in real time we have
like a whole portal and everything where
you can see progress and all everything
is there all right
now that was just an an example research
papers is just one part of it could be
patents could be you know gaining some
experience could be anything dependent
on who you are right for mbas for
instance 3 to 5 years of experience is
almost mandatory now moving forward you
understand this continual profile
guidance part I suppose right you
understand this preparing for the test
part that part we're clear about next we
move on and what we really want to do is
look if you're working by yourself
especially you want to do this early you
want to start preparing your Sops and
recomend recommendation letters many
times your recommenders also will ask
you to prepare their recommendations in
advance and you have to deliver it to
them and then they will sign off on it
and scan it trust me 90% of the
recommenders are like that 10% want to
write it themselves but 90% they don't
because they have their own life as well
right so what you do is you start in
advance because you're doing it for the
first time if you're doing it with us we
can do it in a couple weeks a couple
days but when you're doing it the first
time it takes a lot lot of research so
that's why I put it here march to April
you should already start working on
these I'm not saying that the finalized
version but already start working on it
so that you know by the time you reach
the admission stages you have these
documents with you and these application
submission stages start somewhere around
May June right so as long as you can get
documents ready by then you are fine
you're good to go but you should be
ending up with something that you my
friend are happy with right next let's
move forward uh of course if you're
working with us IV Le grads will writing
your drafts who have already made it to
the top most universities worldwide
mostly in the US they'll be the ones
writing your draft anyway let's move
forward so the next part over here is
okay you're done with your profile
Improvement you're done with your GRE
GMAT is sat dingo whatever you're done
with your Sops and LS and everything's
ready right you by the way you need to
gner transcripts that's not something
that I've mentioned but I think that's
uh quite obvious because when you read
the University requirements you will
find it there you need to have
transcripts that's all after that comes
the application submission stage very
important I don't want you to rush
this if you're doing it for the first
time by yourself I don't want to rush
this period I want you to focus on each
and every part of the application and
treat it as if it's like your baby you
do not want to mess this up you do not
want a spelling mistake anywhere if they
ask you to record a video generally what
we do is we give you a script word by
word if let's say you have an interview
tomorrow right we'll train you for the
interview we'll be doing all of that but
if you're doing it alone by yourself you
have to do all that research by yourself
it takes time all right so you make sure
you fill up everything properly you
should by default know essentially what
kind of scholarships you eligible for so
you can also apply to them sometimes
their additional s is required and all
of this takes time you know every single
application will take probably a week if
not uh more right and that's okay okay
that's why I'm giving you this time
timeline here all right hopefully by
June essentially everything's ready you
have all all the things that I talked
about and you start submitting
applications right June July August you
send in your applications still a good
time for spring all right you send in
your applications and after that I don't
want you to delay it after September
October I mean you can potentially do it
it's possible to apply even in November
but really it's going to cause issues
for your Visa all right by October I
want you to have every everything done
because that's really when you start
receiving the admits from the University
so you will start receiving admissions
if you applied earlier by the way around
June you'll start receiving them from
September itself so you receive
admissions letter from the universities
oh and by the way I skipped a little bit
of an important part over here you don't
just take the test you also short list
universities and short listing is an
important part do not compromise on it
it's very important that you do it the
right way if you do it the wrong way
it's going to be a problem so apply to
the right universities where people like
you have gotten scholarships before you
can use the decision space to understand
all of that it's insanely helpful now
getting back to the schedule once you
receive the admits around September
October November it's time to apply for
the Visa now if you're doing it for the
US for instance in that case you will
want to get the I20 you will want to
start applying for the Visa and trust me
spring has the maximum deferrals people
don't get to go in Spring if they don't
start early so start early this is
important important all right you have
to figure out housing you have to figure
out your Visa it's a lot of work all
right so make sure that November to
December essentially you should be
focused on that so that in January you
can fly out easily all right and that's
my friend your entire plan for the
spring 2025 term I hope that this helps
if you need any help we're always there
we have done this for more than 5,000
candidates you can take a look at the
services page you can reach out to me on
WhatsApp using this exact button right
here um you can take a look at the
complete applicational where will take
care of your entire process really A to
Z everything we'll have counseling
sessions Unlimited in that and there's a
lot more that we do but again I don't
want to make this video long if you'd
like to understand how I can help you
you can reach out to me on Whatsapp in
all the the cases thank you so much for
watching this make sure you subscribe to
the channel because there's a lot more
content like this that is coming your
way and you can follow me on Instagram
for a lot different content where
there's opportunities posted that you
can apply to scholarships and many other
job opportunities that you can take up
if again you know you're following me
there thank you so much I'll see you in
the next
[Music]
one