first off congratulations if you're
watching this video that means you
already have your admit in your hands
and now you have to prove to the Visa
authorities that you can actually afford
your education in this video I'm going
to be telling you about how I myself
cleared my F1 visa interview showed the
funds showed the proof of the funds
basically and I've helped since then
20,000 plus cases prove the exact same
today I'm going to be giving you that
exact information for free I guys my
name is Yash and I make a lot of videos
about studying overseas moving overseas
and living overseas so if that's your
gig make sure to subscribe to the
channel and follow me on Instagram guys
in this video we're going to be
targeting a couple of questions that are
critical for any student who's going for
studying overseas in the US because
these help you prove the funds without
which of course your Visa will not be
given to you the first question is how
much funds do you need to show second is
the forms of funds acceptable what kind
of funds should you show should you show
PF should you show bank balance should
you show loans should you show stocks
real estate what should you show right
we're going to be talking about that
third very important question which I
get asked a lot is how long do you need
to keep these funds in your account
especially if you're showing let's say a
bank statement fourth alternative to
showing funds let's say you don't have
the money what do you do in that case
fifth who who are the possible sponsors
that you can actually take money from in
order to show the funds and sixth are
the exact documents that you should be
carrying with you for the interview
we're going to be covering all of these
six questions in this video and as a
bonus I'm going to be telling you how I
in my own interview got through without
actually proving the finances well in a
way we're going to be discussing that as
well so guys to be able to answer these
six questions I need to explain
something to you and for that let's go
on to the computer and let me actually
show you what an I20 looks like and I
think this is something that you would
have already seen if you know what
you're doing over here otherwise if
you're seeing it for the first time
don't worry this is just your personal
information this is the school
information that you're going for and
then there's the program information
with kind of a course you're studying
over there right and finally comes your
financials this is the part that we're
going to be focusing on in this video
because on the left side it tells you
for essentially one year itself 9 months
but you know essentially approximately
one year leaving out the vacations right
these are the tuition and fees these are
the living expenses and if you have any
dependence this is their estimated
expense as well so they estimate
everything for you this is what your
school has done for you and then sent it
to the Department of Homeland Security
right and this is when you've already
proven the funds to the school now what
you would do is from the right side what
they what they what they show on the
right side is okay how did you prove the
funds to the school now these two values
will match 32,000 32,000 okay so you
showed over here $3,000 of your own
funds and 29,000 was given to you as a
scholarship that means you only have to
show $3,000 per anom essentially that
okay this is what I have to pay and this
is my bank balance as well right if you
could show that that would be good
however do you have to show 3,000 or a
little bit more we're going to talk
about that but this is not how how the
most of the i20s will look like by the
way an actual I20 for most of the
students will not have a lot of
scholarship on it you may have a lot of
scholarship on it if you're lucky but
let's talk about cases where you don't
and in that case you would have let's
say 308,000 tuition living expenses
23,000 total 61,000 and how do you have
to prove the funds over here well the
student has taken an education loan and
shown the rest of the funds from family
and this is how they're proving it okay
so this is essentially how the student
has proven the funds to the university
now this is what you have to do with the
VISA authorities as well now our first
question how much funds do you need to
actually show my advice is that you take
this number so
61600 and you multiply it by 1.5 that
gives you $92,400 if you could show
somewhere around this amount okay that
means because your program may not be
just one year long if it's one year long
you know just show 61,000 or even a
little bit lesser is okay but if you if
your program is 2 years long for
instance then you want to show somewhere
around 1.5 1.4 times at least right so
that what happens is you can show that
you'll be able to afford it for the next
year as well all right that's
essentially how you show the funds how
much you show the funds number two let's
move on to the forms of funds acceptable
what kind of funds to show so here is a
list of documents that work number one
is bank balance that means you're
showing your bank statement right or
you're getting a letter from the bank
stating that this amount is actually
equivalent to so and so US Dollars and
you can actually take it out on any day
of the week that you want number two way
is fixed deposits now your fixed
deposits should be liquid the keyword
here is always going to be liquid if
your fixed deposit is liquefiable you
can go ahead tomorrow to the bank and
liquify it get the money in your hands
get the cash absolutely you can show
fixed deposits Provident fund yes you
can actually show your or your parents
Provident fund as well it's allowed it
works the fourth document is a loan
sanction letter yes so what that means
is when you don't really have the money
you can just take out a loan now you
don't really have to take the loan but
youd pay 1% of it you get the sanction
letter and with what that means is that
this letter states that okay if you want
you can withdraw up to 90,000 or
whatever ,000 you want from this account
anytime for your education all right and
that's how a loan sanct letter works now
I understand you may have trouble
getting loans right and it's difficult
some people have no collateral some
people have no signers and you may have
both of these things but you may have
some requirements of lower rates of
Interest well I'm happy to let you know
that you can take a look at our
Education Loans page right over here
where you can actually fill up one form
and this one form will send data to all
the major lenders across town get you
the best lenders who are interested in
your profile and then they'll connect
with you and let you know what kind of
rates they can offer you the best
possible ones on the market and the best
part is that the whole process from our
in is free so you go ahead you fill up
this form and we'll take care of
everything all right the next letter
that works is a CA certificate people
use it a lot when they have real estate
they have assets which are illiquid but
I personally am against using it so much
because first off it is a very costly
document to acquire I do not believe it
is worth it secondly in a lot of cases
if you show illiquid assets which by the
way the ca will be adding to his CA
certificate well a lot of times there
have been complications the next
document will be a scholarship or
Fellowship proof remember in one of the
i20s I showed you there was a $9,000
scholarship you can actually have a
proof of that scholarship well your I20
is proof enough but still you can keep a
proof from the University in writing
they usually send it to you that hey
you've been giving this amount of
scholarship and you can show that as
well and finally if nothing works you
can show a sponsorship letter or an
affid ofit what that means is you can
actually get someone from your family
and we're going to be talking about who
you can get from your family to actually
sponsor you but still someone from your
family to sponsor you and they can sign
an eff that yes I'm willing to support
his or her education and you know this
is the amount that I'm willing to spend
and as long as that amount is you know
within the range that I mentioned
previously you're good to go two
documents that I want you to avoid a
little bit all right number one is
stocks why should you avoid stocks
they're fluctuating assets the value
keeps on going up and down up and down
today your stocks may be at a great
value tomorrow your Stock May crash you
do not know that things happen and you
know if you've been in the stock market
long enough you would know that stocks
unless of course the money is
liquefiable and you you know get out of
the stock take the money back into your
bank account it's really not worth
showing the second thing that I would
like you to avoid is using real estate
valuation documents because real estate
is usually considered IL liquid that
means if you want today you want to sell
your real estate it can be 6 months from
now till when you sell it how however if
you need the money today for the
university for the tuition fee
University will not wait 6 months for
your asset to be sold so please keep
that in mind question number three how
long do you need to keep these funds in
your account I would suggest keep them
from 2 to 4 weeks of possible all right
don't get the funds today take the
statement out you know two days later
and uh just go to the Embassy for the
interview that's very risky very risky
especially if you've never held that
kind of balance before what I would
suggest is keep that balance in your
account for a while or take a
sponsorship letter from someone who
already has the balance and is ready to
sponsor you but do not just get the
balance today get the print out tomorrow
and then show it to the Embassy Point
number four alternative to showing funds
there's quite a few things you can do
over here and I'm going to be talking
about that in the bonus as well but I
would say the best alternative is that
you get a loan sanction letter you pay
1% but you have letter saying that you
are able to actually afford this program
essentially because the loaning
organization is backing you and that's
good enough more than good enough number
five is the possible sponsors and this
is very important my friend so listen up
your parents can definitely sponsor you
absolutely but all your blood relatives
can actually sponsor you so your
grandparents can sponsor you your dad's
brother can also be sponsoring you so
your your uncle can sponsor you there's
a lot of people a lot of you know
cousins can sponsor you it doesn't have
to be exactly you are very close family
it can be someone else as well all right
but at the end of the day they have to
sign an effort of it that yes we pledge
that we would be supporting this student
in their education and we are ready to
spend this amount of money whenever the
need for the education let's talk about
which documents to carry for your
interviews
most important document I20 don't forget
it take your service fee receipt it's
also an important document bank
statement if you're proving the funds
using your bank balance salary slip
whether it's yours or your sponsors
depending on who's funding your
education should be taken income tax
returns for the last 3 years if possible
take those it's going to help you
massively scholarship proof If you have
a scholarship it may be on your I20 it
may not be on your I20 in some cases but
at the end of the day the university
must have sent you a letter with your
admission take that proof of fixed
deposit or bank balance if you're
showing one of these take the proof of
that loan sanction letter very important
document if you've taken up a loan
finally we get to the bonus part how did
I get through without actually proving
any finances so in my interview
essentially what happened was the
interviewer did ask me about how I'm
going to afford the education overseas
now I actually cited that my father's
salary is so and so my mother's income
is so and so and combined their income
is enough to actually afford my
education I have tax returns to prove
that as well and also salary
slips now while I had these documents
and the salary was actually not covering
one full year of tuition to be very
honest with you it was you know because
at the end of day there's a lot of taxes
go from the salary right so at the end
of the day it was not something that we
needed to discuss over there but these
documents were still with me and I could
still show that you know I'm near about
there and what essentially happened was
that the officer did not exactly ask me
anything after that they just approved
my Visa they did not ask me to show
those documents that did not verify them
a lot of cases your confidence the way
you speak matters a lot so if you're
confident you know what you're doing
trust me you'll get through with or
without it in a lot of cases but of
course don't don't Bank on that in most
of the cases they will check your
documents so please please please take
this video seriously and this is the
last step we don't want to mess this up
create documents original documents
don't go for fake agents or fake
documents we never recommend that your
future is at stay here my friend all
right we don't want to be deported do we
And subscribe to the channel if you like
the content I'll see you in the next one
goodbye
[Music]
thank
he he hey
[Music]
hey