[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
on
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
thee narra
[Music]
[Applause]
Modi Prime Minister Modi is in the UA
it's familiar Turf for him he first
visited the country in 2015 he was just
finding his feet on the global stage
which is not the case anymore he's now a
seasoned world leader this is the prime
minister's seventh trip to the UAE
possibly his last one before the general
election so what's lined up let's start
with the arrival Prime Minister Modi was
welcomed in Abu Dhabi by the UAE
president Muhammad bin Zed al- Nayan
also known as mbz both men exchanged a
warm hug and pleasantries then Prime
Minister Modi inspected a guard of Honor
take a look
[Music]
so pump done time for business Modi and
mbz launched the UA's new domestic card
system it's called the jwan the card
itself is based on India's rup cards
think of it as India's Visa or Master
Card Prime Minister Modi gifted mbz a
card with his name on it the amirati
leader used it to make a transaction on
camera it's a sign of the financial
Synergy between the two sides India's
UPI payment system is already working in
the UA it's a big help for the diaspora
around 3 and a half million Indians live
and work in the UA they regular send
money back home so the UPI and rupe
cards will help them after launching the
service Modi and mbz sat down for talks
the Prime Minister made some opening
remarks he said coming to the UAE Feels
Like Coming Home listen it
around eight agreements have been signed
these are the most important ones number
one a bilateral treaty on investments
the UA is the fourth largest investor in
India it is lining up projects worth $50
billion chances are this treaty will
help number two a deal on digital
infrastructure projects both countries
are betting on the tech boom they're
focusing on semiconductors and
artificial intelligence this deal will
help combine forces whether it's
investment funds or knowhow they'll work
together number three a new agreement on
the India Middle East economic Corridor
you may remember it this project was UN
real last year at the G20 the plan is to
link Europe to India and Israel too is
part of that plan but the war in Israel
has raised questions on its future would
the corridor ever take off that's the
doubt now so Prime Minister Modi and mbz
have reaffirmed their faith in it Number
Four Financial deals India's UPI has
been linked to the uae's Anie systems
the rupe has been linked to the UA's
jwan card so the talks delivered some
very important deals were signed later
the Prime Minister headed for his
diaspora event it's called Elan Modi
it's a bit like howy Modi in the US Alan
means hello more than 65,000 people
registered for this event they packed
into the Z Sports City Stadium take a
look and the prime minister of India
Narendra Modi
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
it's been a feature of prime minister
modi's foreign trips these diaspora
events they're attended by tens of
thousands of people but what's the idea
behind it well for the diaspora it's a
way to connect to feel close to their
Homeland and for the Prime Minister it's
a diplomatic tool these events showcase
the power and influence of the Indian
Community in various countries they also
offer the Prime Minister popularity
boost who doesn't like this so that that
was today's events in the UA tomorrow
will be even bigger Prime Minister Modi
will inaugurate a Hindu temple near Abu
Dhabi the biggest one in the Gulf also a
sign of the closed relationship today
the Prime Minister narrated how the
temple plan was approved listen to this
vs
simp
clearly the personal ties have helped
Modi called MBA mbz his brother and both
leaders have always found time for each
other last month mbz traveled to India
he held a road show with Prime Minister
Modi in the state of Gujarat it was a
big deal for him because mbz is not the
speech or rally kind of leader in that
sense he's very different from Prime
Minister Modi but the two leaders have
made it work today their friendship has
taken this relationship to New Heights
[Music]
[Music]
from impeachments to inaugurations if
it's a political story we are on the
scene the race for the White House is
heating up we're beating Biden how dare
he say that if it's breaking news we're
live with the latest coverage from the
White House the state department and
Capitol Hill we know the issues but
above all we know the players to bring
you the latest in-depth analysis on all
the key stories that we're covering I'm
Eric ham join me from Washington here on
first post
America for