hi there in today's video we'll be
creating a portfolio website like this
in under 15 minutes to showcase our data
science portfolio and we'll also be
deploying our website for free using a
custom domain if you own one many of you
have probably done really amazing
projects you might have put some cool
projects up on your github written some
articles here and there or published
your dashboards on tableau public and so
on but one little problem with that is
that those projects are scattered on
different platforms on the internet
which makes it a bit inconvenient for
you to showcase them to other people one
perfect solution for this and it's
exactly what we'll be tackling today is
to create a portfolio website where you
can tie everything together in one
central place showing who you are and
maybe telling about your most weird
hobbies it helps people know you better
and therefore it's a very good way to
build credentials and even a personal
brand so today we'll be using stackbit
to build our portfolio website no coding
is required you might be thinking what
you're a nerd and you don't know how to
go to website well i used to develop my
own website for example this watercolor
slash tech blog very weird combination
using the static side generator gatsby
js as much as i love coding and
designing websites i quickly realized
how time consuming it is to build and
customize things to my liking and i also
generally find it uninspiring to write
blog posts in markdown so that's why i
turn to stack bit so what the heck is
spec bit it's basically a website
builder but a quite different kind of
website builder compared to squarespace
or wix it provides web developers with a
visual tool to quickly build and edit a
jam stack website and this visual tool
also helps developers and non-developers
work together easily even though this
tool is made more for developers and you
can certainly choose do all the coding
if you like the good thing is there are
also a few really nice pre-designed
themes that we can use and this is what
we'll be doing today let's get started
all right so let's head over to
stackmate website then we're gonna go to
get started so as you can see here this
is a comment that you can use to start a
local development environment if you
want to go to your website yourself
however for this simple portfolio
website that we'll be creating today
we'll just start with a pre-designed
theme so here we have a couple of
different themes here i'll go ahead and
choose this theme so if you haven't had
an account yet at some point you have to
sign up but i already have an account so
i'll just go ahead and start my project
so here we can name our project let's
say this is my website then we click on
create sites it will take a couple of
seconds when you first load the website
this is our website so this is all the
code for the website and this is based
on next.js and if you want to you can
even transfer all the gold to your
github repo so this is pretty nice you
can deploy your website anywhere you
want but today we are not going to
tinker with any of the code we will just
visually edit our website so this is the
website that we have let's start editing
our website so here i have the title
i'll just change it to my name and here
we have the navigation bar and here we
have adventures
let's see what it is
the venture is basically the blog posts
so i will go ahead and change this to
project for example so this section will
be where i write my about my project
here we have the
contact say this is contact me i feel
like i don't particularly like this hero
section so much so i'll go ahead and try
to replace it with something else here
you can see the add section button here
click on it and then you'll see that
there are a bunch of different
components or the sections that you can
choose from if we go to the hero so this
is the current hero section that we have
i feel like this one is a bit better so
i'll choose it
and then i can delete this section
and now we can go ahead and adjust this
hero section here we can say welcome to
my portfolio website then here we can
say yeah a few words about ourselves ah
what should i say data node learning
creativity the url of this one is block
so i want to direct this button to the
blog page on our website i will edit
this as well this will see projects we
can also change our pictures let me
upload okay i have a portrait photo
looks good if you have a landscape photo
instead you can just put in the photo
editor in your computer and then you can
crop your picture to this kind of size
so this looks already pretty good right
let's preview it we can even publish it
you can see that this is a default
domain of our website so later in this
video we'll be connecting our website to
a custom domain that we own and here
this is the publish button we can click
on it and then the website will be
deployed to this default domain now
while waiting for our website to be
published we can continue editing our
website in this hero section i also want
to add a few links to for example my
linkedin profile and my github profile
as well so let's click on this little
plus button here and you can choose to
add here either another button or a link
so i'll choose a link so here we have
the default learn more and so i can
direct this link to an url we can just
copy this url paste it here we can add
an icon here so here we have the
linkedin icon now in a very similar
fashion we will go ahead and create
another link to our github profile so
here we will have our url which is our
github profile i'll paste it here and in
the styling we will add an icon which is
our github which is here and show this
icon
and here we can remove this label learn
more this looks very nice and now we can
go ahead and edit other sections of our
website as well
so here's the quote
section so maybe we can choose this
color to make it pop a little bit more
so these colors
we can edit in our styling
section here the global styling if you
go to the color palette you can see that
this is the color palette that is used
at the moment but we can certainly
choose a different color for our website
a very nice website for this is the cool
color yeah coolers dot co it has all
kinds of different colors so we can
start the generator and here are the
different kind of color combination that
we can choose from this is pretty handy
if you want to select a different kind
of color palette now we want to have a
different quote this one is pretty nice
we cannot solve our problems with the
same thinking we used when we created
them i'll just do this one and copy to
our quote section here we can say this
is from
albert einstein and here we can
basically remove this the next section
is basically the posts section so
basically the blog section here we have
two blog posts here we will go ahead and
edit them in a bit here we can say
something like a recent project
and here we can say
this is a co project instead
here are the blog posts that are default
in this theme but we'll go ahead and
delete them and create our own blog post
because they have at the moment like
different slots and we don't want to use
these locks so let's duplicate this one
the first one is probably python
dashboard and this is a default blog
post on our website we can change the
picture here to a picture of our project
and here we can say interactive of co2
emissions
using panel hp plot we can select
different dates so we can choose maybe
today and then we can edit the content
of our blog post here we have different
kind of header here we can say
motivation and we can even embed a
picture then we could even create a
quote a lot of data visualization and uh
if you select the markdown here if you
toggle on this you can see that this is
the markdown format of our blog post as
i mentioned earlier i'm not very big fan
of writing blog posts in this kind of
fashion let's go back to the home here
we can remove this blog post
and we can add another post here um we
say existing we'll select this post that
we just created yeah the picture is now
still default picture we will select our
own picture about the project so yeah
this is our blog post this one also
we'll go ahead and remove it and we can
add another blog post here let's
duplicate this one suicidal landscape
we will change this picture to
this one
and here we can say the name of the
project is visualizing
the suicidal cases
in the netherlands in 2018 and yes so we
can add post here existing um you can
add this one
change the picture okay this is very
nice the keep reading link label now at
the moment is a joint adventure so we
can say here probably read more and here
um in the styling
we can even change to different kinds of
arrangements so at the moment it is two
columns grid but we can also choose to
have a list instead so let's see what it
looks like so this is the list format
but i'll just keep the two columns great
i think it looks much better
and i can probably also promote my
youtube channel i also make videos on
youtube
we can also change this picture to
another picture a very nice website for
royalty-free picture is unsplash so you
can search for anything for example
youtube
orientation landscape let's say i want
to have this photo then i can go ahead
and select this photo
so
add background image
oops i chose a different image for my
laptop i just leave it and in the about
section we can also go ahead and adjust
this about section we can add a picture
of ourselves for example
and as i mentioned earlier we can also
create a whole new page for our website
so to do that we will click on the plus
button here we will create for example
add a new empty page and we can select
the slack for this page the gallery for
example
then this is the empty page that we have
and we can add different sections here
for example media gallery
to create a link to this page we can add
something in the navigation pane for
example we can create a link we will
have the url here we can say this will
direct to the gallery page we can have
also the label here is gallery rather
yeah so now we have this page and if we
click on it then this will be our new
page and to publish the website you can
see here this is all the changes that we
have made and we can go ahead and click
on the publish button
so on namecheap or godaddy you can buy a
domain very cheaply for example i bought
this domain name
conscientiousgeek.com for like nine
dollars so domain names are usually very
cheap if you don't have the same name as
elon musk for example now we'll go ahead
and connect our website to this domain
name so if you click on the clock icon
over here and go to the domain tab you
see the steps we need to take to connect
our website to our own domain name so we
basically follow the instructions on
this page we need to add two records to
our dns settings the first one is a
cname record and the second one is an a
record so for the cname record we just
go ahead and copy paste our current
project domain name here
and for the a record we'll enter a value
field specified in the instructions
which is 75 to 65. i realized later that
i should replace stack bit with netlify
on the domain name here because the
website is actually hosted on netlify so
don't forget to change it for your own
case as well now you can go ahead and
save those records
the next step is to simply to enter a
custom domain in this box and click on
save now it usually takes an hour or two
for those dns changes to propagate
through the internet's global domain
name service system so please be patient
and check the status again after a few
hours just a side note if you get stuck
at this step for very long time then you
should try to remove and fill in your
domain name again in this box this has
helped me before so this is our final
website which looks pretty decent and is
also connected to our custom domain
which is really really nice the next
step is to promote your website and let
people know about your project whenever
you write about a new project on your
website make a tweet about it and add a
link to your website you can also write
posts on linkedin as well to share with
your professional network which i
usually feel too embarrassed to do
another way to promote your blog which i
like is import your blog post into
medium it's very easy to do all you need
to do is to enter the url of your blog
post and click on import then you can
further customize your post on medium
and you may notice that at the end of
the post there's an automatic line that
says this post is originally published
on your website which is really great
because people who read your article can
also go to your website if they want to
so in this video i showed you one of the
most simple and low budget ways to
create a website but there are many
other options as well you can choose
from the most basic way is to build a
simple html css file on html5 up website
for example you can find a bunch of nice
templates for this but this option is
usually only suitable for websites that
have only a few pages and not suitable
for blogging because every time you make
a new page you'll have to copy paste the
whole html together with the header
photo and other components on the page
which is very cumbersome so the solution
that people often turn to is to use
static side generators like hugo gatsby
and j gold they are free and open source
tools to build website and i love them
but they often require quite some
knowledge of web development and it can
take a lot of coding to make a website
decent looking even if you just want to
customize a pre-designed theme on the
other end of spectrum we have no code
website builders that offer visual
editing interface like wix and
squarespace they are very convenient but
they are not free you typically pay 10
to 20 bucks a month for using the theme
and for the hosting service which is
unnecessary in my opinion because you
can technically host your portfolio
website for zero dollar using github
page or netlife so it's totally your
core what best fits your experience and
budget having built this amazing
portfolio website that you can use for
data science blogging now you can focus
on doing projects if you are looking for
project ideas you can check out my
previous video over here about how i
find project ideas and also check out
the portfolio project playlist on my
channel for some end-to-end project
tutorials in r and python again if you
got any value from this video don't
forget to hit the like button and
subscribe if you haven't already for
more data science related content and
with that i'll see you in the next video
bye