[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
watch watch
[Music]
[Music]
justan the scary movie on day I just
come
[Music]
over I ain't got the MK
[Music]
B me
[Music]
crazy
[Music]
watch hello and welcome this is it we're
here in Milton keing and today we're
making history 20 years ago diatric mat
shits rewrote the script of Motorsports
with a team that's become the forever
rebels of Formula 1 the racing
establishment wrote them off as just a
fizzy drinks company but the bubbles
never burst for Oracle Red Bull Racing
as we launch this 20th season what we're
celebrating is a culture a spirit and an
attitude that's changed Formula 1
forever let's take a look at those last
20 years of doing it the Red Bull
way another Victory lap for Max staffen
who is on his way to win his 34th Grand
Prix since Bahrain
2022 re will have a different way of
operating with the emphasis on people
being themselves when we come together
as a team we like to feel Unstoppable
and let people know where we stand do
something that no one else has done
before makes us feel like a family
welcome to my world the world of red
when you look at some of the other
projects that Red Bull are involved in
the extreme sports we're tremendously
proud to carry the red bull logo it's
become iconic in Formula 1 if you have a
will and if you have an idea exciting
things are possible you know I didn't
want to let him down and did I feel
ready probably not when I first joined
Red Bull huge change culturally people
saw Red Bull as a party team they wanted
to do things differently you know when
something just feels right and it just
there was a natural chemistry from those
very first interactions you know are
they completely mad is it just parties
or are they serious you know who's this
kid Christian Horner and take a massive
[Music]
risk
what a r let's add a stunt and then
we're third and that was the first
Podium you know for the team so it was a
massive
achievement right I don't are you still
watching that David that looks like
Sebastian ble went right into the side
of Mark Weber how do you read that yeah
I think the Mark was holding position as
as uncomfortable as it is to call that
between those two guys what the
here Mar to slow get him out of the way
this is silly sir come on
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
subastian vle you are the world champion
thank you boy
unbelievable we have to remember these
things there's no guarantee that take
last going to get it while you can
yeah well I need a
drink
that we may have a bit problem got
damage got
damage
[Music]
TI wants to put himself in a great
position have out after that one this is
how we do it man we shut our mouth and
we work hard this is a take and for the
first time ever a Mexican driver on the
podium in his home
[Applause]
race check is a
legend Max for Ste you are the world
champion we are so proud of you oh my
god guys I love you so much
Max you have been absolutely Mighty this
year you've LED over a th000 laps 19
victories That's History you have just
overtaken a scaring that's a record from
1952 mate yeah we did that it's been an
absolute privilege watching you drive
this car that's been built by a team of
brilliant
people Max for staffen wins 19 Grand
Prix in a single season literally
ludicrous domination you got build a a
rocket ship of the
car please welcome two men who have been
a part of the story from the very start
CEO and team principal of Oracle Red
Bull Racing Christian
Herer oh yeah and we've got Oracle Red
Bull Racing Legend David
kard gentlemen it's great to see you
both and as we just watched there it's
been quite the journey you've been on as
a team now Christian I'll come to you
first because you're now CEO and team
principal of arguably one of the world's
most successful high performance
companies but it all started back when
you were just 31 years old no former
experience in Formula 1 I mean
reflecting on that as a journey how did
it all start well it started uh as you
say 20 years ago and looking at some of
those videos we're all looking a little
young there it's been quite a journey
and uh you know what we've crammed into
20 years has been been phenomenal some
some highs and lows along the way but an
awful lot of highs and uh um yeah it's
been very special many highs which came
from you of course David going back to
2004 when you first joined the team what
made you want to work with Christian and
Di Tri well I'd known Christian actually
from from lower Motorsports I've seen
what he done with his Ard and racing
team but the team that was formerly here
I'd already decided I wasn't going to R
for them because I just didn't believe
in the future investment but when I met
the mishit it was absolutely clear this
was more than just a branding exercise
this was an absolute commitment and that
very first meeting he said our goal is
to win the World Championship and it
really took me back because I'm thinking
we haven't even got to the first race
never mind got about building a team
that can compete against you know your
Ferraris and the likes but his vision
his commitment Christians leadership
along with all of the great technical
men and women that have uh been part of
this journey has just been incredible so
when we started it was a few hundred
people in One factory down at the bottom
of of this road now we've got the whole
campus and what 1500 people or so
employed and Counting yeah such an
incredible journey and of course it was
clear from the off that you guys meant
business because in your first race
sorry Jaguar to throw you in here but in
the first race they scored more points
than Jaguar had in the entire previous
season just saying and then shortly
thereafter of course this happened so
talk us through that moment where you
got your first po with Red Bull yeah
well Monaco is a circuit that I always
went well so I was confident that even
though we were still a developing team
that there was an opportunity in a track
like that to get a result so I was
convinced we were capable of making it
certainly into some good point scoring
position but a Podium of course is uh a
landmark for the team look I mean it was
the first Trophy and it's it's very
proudly in our in our cabinet you know
and you know David was such an important
part of the early part of Rebel racing
and again here we are 20 years with with
him still Associated and working with
the brand absolutely and so would you
say that that was the moment that you
really felt you'd arrived as a team I
think it was an important moment because
you know that trophy represented you
know what was to come and it also
represented that we were prepared to do
things a little differently seeing David
standing on a podium in front of Prince
Albert in a Superman cape um on Red
Bull's first Podium just showed that you
know we were doing it differently we
were doing it the Red Bull way yeah I
think it's important to mention actually
at that time Formula 1 was quite a close
shop you didn't go into the other teams
it was very much you know each team was
its own entity Red Bull opened the door
to the paddock and said the other teams
were welcome and at first you could see
other team members sort of nervously
walking up into the energy station
thinking is something going to happen
and then over time it just changed the
whole philosophy of Formula 1 and the
padic is a much friendlier place because
of it absolutely and I know you credit a
lot of this down to team culture how
important would you say that is in terms
of success it's everything uh the men
and women here in molon keing um all the
people behind the scenes it's it's out
of these industrial buildings that uh
We've created some of the most
incredible cars over the last you know
19 seasons and and uh the late nights
the hours the the the the sacrifices
that are made it's it is a culture it's
a very inclusive culture it's a team
culture for me Formula 1 is the biggest
team sport in the world and without the
people you have nothing and it's the
people who are your single biggest asset
absolutely now we've spoken a lot about
teammates and we've heard just how
important the team is so why don't we
hear from some of the people who have
all played their part in these Very
Special 20 years three more try to hard
your disappointment better than that
honestly sake what are we doing here
this line of questionings is
appalling we
done that let's get those
in there are Rebels and character
throughout there's so many of them I
mean you can start with Vash he's got a
few Pink Panther moves at some parties
that I've seen in action yeah for
sure well certainly Adrian he does like
a party I've seen him have a good time
on quite a few
occasions I'm I can be a party animals I
I don't think I'm the chief party animal
I can think of a lot bigger protagonist
he looks like a university Professor but
get a Red Bull inside him you know he
just takes off it's great everybody
feels like they can be a part of this
team so it's not like a separate them
and us thing at all in redel it's like
we're all a family and a team together
it has to be fun you have to enjoy what
you're doing it's not a nine-to-five job
in Formula 1 it's a competition it's a
sport and it's fantastic to see as we
travel around the world the amount of
support that the team enjoys in every
country that we go to keep it very
quickly we established a culture and a
culture that was inclusive that you know
that we were there to operate as a race
team you know growing up within the team
has been very nice of course everyone
has always been very supportive and we
all always trusted each other and I
think that makes our relationship very
special everyone is seeing how they can
support the guy next to
you I think Red Bull just came across as
a great place to work where there was
kind of that fun a bit young and
energetic he's a team product he's never
an individual product you race as one
team it's vital isn't it you get
different views different ideas
different personalities and how you
choose them how you develop them and
after developing you how we make it
together
[Music]
raw we are now joined by group Chief
technology officer of Oracle Red Bull
Racing aka the goat of F1 engineering
please give it up for Adrien
newie welcome Adrian so as you've seen
we've been going through the Journey of
everyone and I want to start off with
you going back to 2004 you already had
two decades of experience designing
Championship winning cars both for teams
which David drove for so I have to ask
you was it a bit of a bromance going on
that brought you to Red Bull as it turns
out the three um teams that David has
driven for it's actually the same three
teams I've worked for and so I've known
David since he was a a Wii test driver
very young lad in 1993 I think uh he
then moved to McLaren I moved to McLaren
a year after he moved to to Red Bull and
then really from there things developed
and how excited were you David when you
found out that Adrien was joining the
team well you know Adrien has been
incredibly successful through his entire
career even prior to Formula 1 so when
Christian first suggested that you know
would Adrian be available at that point
I was so immersed and trying to
understand where we were as a team I
hadn't really given that consideration
but thankfully he accepted the chall
Challenge and the invitation and the
team of people that he's built here has
proven out by the success the thing I
really love about Adrian as well as
being obviously creative chap pretty
handy when it comes to being at the
drawing board because uh for those who
know Formula 1 closely they'll know that
Adrian still uses a pencil to design but
he's a racer and maybe he doesn't have
the same racing success as Max fappen
but he has been out on the racetrack and
he likes to keep it simple I remember
once you know going into great detail
explaining everything that was doing on
a lap and at the end of having giving
this long explanation he went what do
you need to go faster kept it simple and
then I went well understair and he went
okay we'll work on the understair so out
of all of this sort of you know mess
going on in my head about the journey
around the racetrack just focus on what
you need to go quicker and that
Simplicity has clearly been very
successful for him and his team
incredible now Christian of course even
the greatest teams go through
challenging moments moments and fast
forwarding now to 2014 when Mercedes
started to look a little bit unbeatable
how did you stay resilient as a team
well I think that uh you know that was a
testing period for the team that uh
there was a big regulation change um
we'd gone from En enjoying huge success
with Sebastian vettle and those four
consecutive World Championships and
suddenly for reasons beyond our control
we didn't have an engine that that could
compete with the likes of you know what
Mercedes had come up with so suddenly it
was about keeping the group together
keeping the team together staying
focused on uh you know addressing the
weak point and you know focusing on the
things that we could control and the
things that you know where we could be
strong and I think it was that team
spirit it was that togetherness that you
know we didn't lose uh you know key
members of the team during that period
and we were able to win races every
single year by one until we got
ourselves in a position with a
competitive engine to suddenly then be
able to go for a championship again now
we've spoken a lot about the past but I
know that Red Bull is a lot about the
future and in particular backing young
Talent through the Red Bull Academy
program through Visa cash app RB and
Oracle Red Bull Racing how important is
it to you to bring in those fresh new
names well look it's it's really
exciting and I think Red Bull have
committed more to Formula 1 Academy than
any other team in Formula 1 and you know
with Oracle Red Bull Racing and Red Bull
Fielding cars and you know the Visa cash
app RB team also you know putting cars
out there's going to be a really strong
Red Bull presence and it's it's great to
see you know these young girls getting a
chance as the sport starts to embrace
female racing absolutely well on that
note let's have a look at that next
generation of racing and some very
exciting young female
Talent I'm amily the host and I'm ham
alesi and I'm part of the Red Bull
Academy
program a few years ago I couldn't even
think about being part of Red Bull it
was always a dream F1 Academy is is a
big opportunity
my ambitions for next season is I want
to win I want to be champion of course I
feel like Red Bull has done many amazing
things not just in Motorsport it's
exciting to to be part of
it and here they are in the flesh from
the Red Bull Academy program it's ham
alabasi and Amil
deou all right so ham I'll come to you
first as you'll be driving for F1
Academy for Red Bull Racing tell us a
bit about your journe into Motorsport
and how this program is helping you with
the next level of your career yeah I got
into carting when I was 12 years old and
I fell in love with the sport
immediately and from there we moved up
the ladder into F4 and finally into F1
Academy last year we ended the season
very strong in the top three and now I'm
part of the Red Bull family and couldn't
be more grateful about this opportunity
super excited and amily what does it
mean to you to be a part of the Red Bull
family and what was your journey into
Motorsport like well I started carting
when I was 9 years old at the local
carding track and in 2021 I started to
go in Fula cars and last year I did F1
Academy and I won my first race in
Barcelona and this year I'm part of the
Red Bull family and I'm really proud of
that absolutely you should be it's an
incredible achievement that you've both
done so Christian looking at this seeing
the amazing young Talent how special
does it feel to to know that Redbull are
offering these incredible opportunities
well it's it's a great initiative and of
course Red Bull have got a long history
with the uh young driver program that
obviously helmet's done a a great job of
of running and and nurturing but again
this is a new element and with uh F1
Academy um Coming really on stream
supporting many Formula 1 races this
year it was the ideal time to step in
and identify some young talents well
best of luck for the season thank you
very much hamda and
amily so I'm now back with Christian
Herer Adrien newie and technical
director Pierre was welcome so now we
are getting closer to that big reveal of
the rb20 but before we do that let's
just take a moment to reflect on the
rb19 because I mean it was a
record-breaking car such an incredible
machine so Adrian it'd be great if you
could take us back to the drawing board
the 19 really was very much an evolution
of the rb18 of 22 last year's car really
was a total surprise in terms of its
dominance I have to say because we went
into that winter of 22 23 thinking yep
um saders won a race near the end in
Brazil Ferrari was still winning races
it was it was still very tight and on
our side we just concentrated on kind of
improving some of the weaknesses of the
the 22 car and to our complete shock
really by half season it was becoming
pretty evident that we had a a march on
um on our competitors and Pier I know
that you love that thrill of competition
that we' just spoken about is that what
helps you to constantly push to find an
edge yes for sure but you know this
business of Formula 1 is the highest
engineering competition in the world but
to have this success you know you you
need to have all Department in our
business to be competing with other team
then the competition is at each level
and for sure he's making the motivation
great and Christian what brief did you
give these guys before they were
designing well look that's not not up to
me but uh you know the 23 car was really
an update of the 22 car and
operationally I think you know Max was
insane the way that he drove uh last
year so to have achieved all of those
records you know 22 victories uh 19 for
Max to have achieved first and second in
the in the driver's Championship
something we'd never done before um 15
straight victories in a row breaking you
know McLaren's record from 1988 as a guy
say it's down to the people and you need
everybody in every Department doing
their bit to achieve achieve those kind
of results you know it was a magical
year what's what's the changes for this
year's car you have to keep pushing
we've made some improvements to the car
in all areas um mechanical vehicle
Dynamics and
aerodynamics uh is that enough who knows
we shall have to see watch this space
and Pierre do you feel the same way yeah
we feel the same way you know just we
try to identify where we can gain
performance on the car try to also
understand where weakness for the driver
and after just an evolution of what we
did in the previous year
well gentlemen thank you so much it's
great to hear your insights and now
we've made it to that moment that we've
all been waiting for the big reveal it's
your first sight of a car that's going
to be making fresh Red Bull history to
get ready for this it's time to meet the
[Applause]
[Music]
rb20
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
4
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
wa wo
and here she is in the flesh the rb20
everyone joining us are the two drivers
who will be behind the wheel of this
beauty please welcome three-time and
reigning world champion Max V stafen and
Mexico's Mighty Minister of Defense
czecho
Perez but I want to come to you first
firstly congratulations on this
incredible car could you tell us a bit
more about it yeah I mean it's uh you
can see it's an evolution of uh of last
year's car but uh you know as our 20th
version um the guys haven't been you
know it's it's not conservative and you
can see they've been quite aggressive in
certain areas uh you can see all the all
the men and women behind the scenes have
been working very hard and some of the
detail on the car is absolutely
Exquisite and Max I'll come to you next
you had one of the most incredible if
not the most incredible season in
Formula 1 last year you broke your own
record for the most race wins in a
season and of course took your third
world championship title how excited are
you to be driving the rb20 and are we
confident that this is the car that will
help you get your fourth title uh I
guess time will tell but um yeah no I'm
I'm excited um it's always very nice to
see a new car come to life and how it's
you know uh built up with all all the
people around it uh when you do your
your seat fit as well and you know for
me at the moment is more about just
looking forward to brain get testing get
comfortable with the car understand what
it needs and um yeah just work from
there you know it's such a a long season
that we just Tred to hit the ground
running as as good as we can you know
really try to understand the car and
then we'll see where we end up and
Checker you had a brilliant season you
helped Red Bull secure their first one
two tell us what are your Ambitions for
2024 yeah I mean I'm just really happy
to see I've seen that the the whole team
has put together an incredible concept
and um I think now we just want to hit
the the track you know properly but I
believe that the we've we've made made
some some good steps in the right
direction so it should be another great
season for the team absolutely well
we're all wishing you the very best of
luck thank you very much gentlemen
Christian czecho Max another big round
of applause to
them and of course to everyone at Oracle
Red Bull Racing not just for today but
for everything that they've done over
the last 20 years as the forever rebels
of Formula 1 now that's sadly all the
time that we have for today we're
finishing off today with the the past
versus the future the very first Red
Bull car the RB won facing the new rb2
on track at silverston it's the first
iconic Red Bull moment of the new season
and trust me there'll be plenty more to
come in
[Applause]
2024 this this is where all St question
yeah yeah the gold old
yeah this scored points it's first of a
Grand Prix 2005 how old were you 8 years
old this was state-of-the-art but
they're basic now when you look at the
Modern Grand PR
car good to see that running again bring
back some memories yeah I think it
actually looks better than it did when
we took it to the first race I think we
all
do
[Music]
from rb1 to rb2 all the best for the
year
ahead