[Applause]
hey guys this is versatile from VST
power and today's video tutorial I'm
going show you how simple it is to play
Counterstrike 1.6 if you go to the more
info section I actually got a download
link to my copy which is the
Counterstrike 1.6 a new era mod which
just makes it look a little bit better
and with my copy yes you can play on
legitimate internet servers or you can
decide and use the land Tab and connect
to um other virtual lands using like a
tungle program like here I am inside
tungo which is a VPN gaming program
allows you to connect your land servers
with other Gamers around the world or
you can use Hamachi or some other VPN
gaming program or you can do your own
internal land which is a lot of fun as
well so if you're using tungle just make
sure you port forward UDP 11155 and
that's pretty much it so with that said
let's jump straight into the gameplay
footage tutorial all right here we are
at the main menu of Counterstrike 1.6
let's go to find servers if you want to
play on Internet by all means click on
the internet Tab click on refresh and
connect to a server that you so desire
we're going to do the land tab for today
and like I said you you can use tungle
but you can use whatever program you
want you can use Hamachi whian um your
own internal Land network that's fine
too so let's go ahead and connect one of
these this is just some person who's
hosting his own server inside a tungle
room for example and momentarily will be
connected to the game now I am not by
any means a CS master I will get my butt
kicked all the time but hey I just want
to showcase that yeah this does work and
there's actually a lot of players even
2012 playing counter- strike 1.6
so in terms of players we got uh four on
three right now counterterrorist win
that's fine and uh let's see how bad I
get my buck kicked
here okay let's
go but yeah I mean some people they
don't want to play Counter Strike 1.6
that's fine if there's another FPS game
you guys like by all means go ahead and
go
for uhoh that's not good
terrorist
win yeah sweet good game so there you
have it the game works out fine if you
like this type of video please like
favorite And subscribe so hopefully one
day we can get to the front page of
YouTube otherwise if you got any ncky
questions leave a comment here on
YouTube page I'll get back to you soon
as possible once again thank you for
watching take care bye
a