I've always been the tinkerer I had
fathered five or six and I got my first
like electronics kit that got me
interested in that kinda stuff and I
would back off the TV my dad was
freaking out but you know I would always
play around that guy thought I always
was interested in how things worked I
like going to startups like I've always
liked the kind of early companies where
you're you're working on something new
or fresh and you're you're having to
figure out how how does a technical side
of this work how do i scale this how do
I actually how do I do it like sometimes
there's a big technical hurdle I really
try and concentrate on things that are
I'll just say going to be impactful in
some way that's kind of what I do with
the class I teach right now it's
something that isn't typically taught
really as any four-year university but
it at the very least opens the door and
let students realize oh you can do this
technical operations thing it's
something you do as a computer scientist
or you can do as a computer scientist
there's always a handful students at
least one and up to four or five that
have come to me either during court or
after the quarter and said oh my
goodness I didn't realize I could do
this as a career that is like the
biggest reward I think for me if I'm
teaching the class