[Music]
since our founding in 2018 the halajolu
data Science Institute has been an
academic force of nature rapidly
advancing the field of data science at
UC San Diego and the global Society at
Large
we're an Institute established from a
vision to unlock the power of data for
the better Humanity in the past five
years we've pushed the boundaries of
what's possible
join us as we take a journey through our
Landmark achievements in the past five
years
we've welcomed over 4 800 students
annually into our data science courses
and graduated our first cohort of data
science undergrads in 2021 we launched
our Masters of Science and data science
and online Masters and a doctoral
program
expanded our research and teaching
expertise by appointing 47 faculty which
includes seven new recruits in the past
year honored our first hdsi chancellors
endowed chairs who are renowned Scholars
and recognized Innovative leaders in
their field Virginia de sa Demetrius
politis vineet bafna
hosted over 200 events as part of our
lecture and Outreach sponsorship and
special seminar series awarded 84
scholarships to undergraduate
researchers bolstered our research
abilities with visiting Scholars and
over 15 post-docs aimed new industry
Partners who have enriched our student
experience through mentorship and
research opportunities to work on
real-world data sets sent off 504 data
science graduates who have gone on to
use their new skills and knowledge to
lead data-driven innovation in some of
the most prominent organizations in the
nation one of our most recent
achievements welcoming our first
incoming class of Masters and PhD
students
as we embark on another year we're
excited to welcome another First ahala
zholu Data science building a dedicated
space that marks our presence where
collaboration and Innovation will Thrive
we're proud of our successes but we know
this is only the beginning as hdsi grows
and progresses onward will continue
cultivating a culture of academic
excellence and Innovation pushing beyond
the limits and making a positive impact
on the world through the power of data
success is just the start
[Music]