of the line of actual control that's the
India China Lac 770 km of the line of
control that's India Pakistan 110 km of
the actual ground position line that's
the sein glacier plus you have a
multi-tier grid this multi-tier grid is
of the counterterrorism operations and
of course you have the Indian Armed
Forces forever in Aid of Civil
Authorities now this is how extensively
the Indian armed forces are forever in
operations who better to talk about the
reforms and reorganization that's taking
place right now as Indian Armed Forces
perhaps undertake the biggest reforms
ever to meet the challenges of the 21st
century may I now invite on stage
General Anil Chan chief of Defense staff
General Chan is former Army Commander
Eastern command and former director
general of military operations he was
dgmo during the balakot air strikes
General may I request you to join us on
stage
[Applause]
please General it's an absolute
privilege and an honor to have you here
with us at the India today conclave and
especially at a time when we're talking
about an assertive India in an uncertain
world but I want to begin by asking you
in this 21st century what are the
biggest challenges we face as a nation
when it comes to US security
challenges I think if you look at the
Armed Forces uh the biggest challenges
would be mostly external you know and
thereof our immediate
concern uh but then external challenges
also United Nation we've seen it in
balakot sorry balakot we've seen it in
uh Caril we've seen it in
galwan uh if you look at the other side
of this the eternal security challenges
actually which actually have furist
Tendencies sometimes they also become
challenging we need to look at that
particular aspect also as far as the
armed forces are concerned the major
challenges are the rise of China and the
unsettled boundary probably we have two
neighbors both adversar to us both of
them profess that their friendship is
higher than the Himalayas and as deep as
the oceans and they are both nuclear
capable but over here both of them are
actually predictable we know that these
are the kind of
threats what is unpredictable and for us
would biggest challenge would be the way
Warfare is changing in the
future uh because of this we'll have to
introduce new weapon systems
technologies tactics is going to change
strategy is going to change and probably
organization systems so this particular
path of how to predict and what to path
to take right now so that we are at the
right place at the right time that I
think is the biggest challenge for us
and general uh we live in a very
uncertain neighborhood as you very
rightly pointed out sir we have an
expansionist Nation on one side we have
a state sponsor of Terror on the other
plus uh the subers elements within if
you were to grade the threat that we
face as a nation U how would you grade
the threat that we Face
sir I think uh the first part actually I
would have answered it uh in the first
question itself you know I think uh the
rise of China it's a certain nature I
think that's the biggest challenge the
only silver lining in this is that it
rise hasn't been so peaceful so it's got
a large number of nations like-minded
Nations United together and hence for
Chinese to achieve their geopolitical
aims actually would be slightly
difficult I think that for us would be
the biggest challenge I
for but as we face this challenge in the
Himalayas does our geographical location
also provide a solution to the
challenges that we Face especially going
ahead means I'm a strong proponent of
geography it shapes the Strategic
Outlook of
Nations uh for us the Himalayas have
been providing a security since ages
actually but off late because of
advancement of Technology you can know
the Himalayas are no longer impediment
because you have missiles you have
aircrafts and then of course we been
able to breach it by advancing Mobility
options in
Himalayas so to some extent uh uh the
impregnability of Himalayas if I would
say has diminished slightly for us but
then of course we also have a
geographical advantage because of a
peninsular shape which JS out into the
Indian Ocean flanked by two Island
territories which gives us a lot of
strategic depth and uh the exess to
indan Ocean region is very very
restricted and we enjoy a predominant
position so I think we need to balance
out between our Continental challenges
and Maritime
challenges so U if there is a problem in
the Himalaya do the solution lies in the
Indian Ocean uh I won't put it across
like that you know if our immediate
challenges and problem of course are
land Centric uh that's because of
unsettled borders and problems with
Pakistan but if if a nation we have to
grow actually uh we may be part of this
Asian Landmark but actually we can't
travel through this Asian Landmark you
know we can't travel because China
continues to occupy Tibet and then we
have a problem with the pakistanis on
the western side if you look East manmar
is you know embroiled in kind of a
problem so if you look India is kind of
like an island nation actually and the
only way for India to grow is towards
the Seas which I just mentioned so our
destiny I would normally say lies in a
seas and there's a way where
opportunities also lie so my threats may
be in the Continental domain but the
opportunities lie on the
Seas that's a big Point you're making
sir tell us more about this dastra that
India has just tested why is the testing
of the AG 5 the mirv so
significant uh let me say that we have a
nuclear Doctrine which professes no
first
use and I think hence the credibility of
our deter has to be very very high uh
this particular test actually uh says
testifies this that you know the
credibility of a doctor
when we talked about
DET you know there's a element of
communication into it that mean we
should be able to communicate if you
don't communicate to the adversary what
you possess then the detes have got no
value so this particular test should is
a part of a
communication so this will strengthen
deterence and I believe in the long run
uh will promote strategic stability in
the
neighborhood but right now I think it's
time to congratulate all those people
who are involved in the test especially
d
oh absolutely it it's a big test ag5 U
sir as we move forward you working very
extensively on reorganizing our Armed
Forces to face future challenges how is
that reorganization coming along um and
what what sometimes gives you perhaps
sleepless nights on how are we moving
forward and are we moving forward at the
pace at which we ought to
yeah uh let me Begin by saying that you
know uh change is part of you know it's
only constant in life they say and
organizations who don't change actually
will become extend Charles darn said so
not me and so that's true for
organizations and as well as for
organizations I told you in the
beginning actually that the Warfare is
changing rather rapidly we got to change
for that uh unfortunately for us for the
past 77 years all the three Services
have grown
independently uh they have their own
capabilities they have developed over
time a culture of theirs
actually uh but now we think actually
the multi-domain operations are a
reality for future and a network Centric
kind of in Warfare so if we have to do
this with all the three services have to
combine the capabilities we also need to
combine our capabilities not only in the
cyber space but also in the cognitive
domain so it's the reforms what we
attempting over here is basically uh
trying to integrate the three services
promote kind of a jointness between them
and jointness is if I would say
elaborate is something like promoting
Bon homing removing mistrust between the
three services unfortunately that
existed till some time back and uh this
will lead probably to better integration
between us and integration is a physical
kind of a process and there are a large
number of you know the domains in which
we are thinking that we will be able to
integrate ourselves starting from
operations operational logistic
intelligence training H legal a number
of such issues and they are part of a
physical process they have to be made
enduring it's not specific to particular
tenure of Chiefs and cdss so we're
trying to put those things in place and
jointness probably would create a
Bedrock or the foundation for
integration and that would uh create a
foundation for for further set of
reforms which we are attempting where we
will be able to function in a kind of a
joint and integrated kind of
environment as you try to achieve this
uh task um there was there was some if I
may use that word Bad Blood uh between
the Army and the Air Force as some had
argued when the Air Force was seen as a
support arm where do you stand on this
is the the Indian Air Force a support
arm I think that's a tricky one G uh but
I think when armed forces officers use
of words actually there's a meaning
behind it and some sometimes we actually
just catch on to a particular word
probably and so probably what general
raat when he said that he meant that air
force is the only service which can
support the operations of other two
services and the reverse is not true
that means Air Force can support the
land operations they can support
operations in the maritime domain but
the reverse is not to no none of these
two Services can actually support air
operations which are independent in
their own nature field so that places
Air Force or their operations in a very
unique position and it is so unique that
the leor of Air Force actually has
prompted other two Services also to
acquire Air Force of their own and today
if you have an Air Force with the Navy
they are part of the executive branch
and uh in case of the Army in case this
Apachi is coming then probably they'll
also be part of a fighting arm so
there's no question of someone being a
supporting arm I think we read too much
into this particular word actually what
he meant was that's a service which can
support the operations of other two
service I think that should put the
whole thing to rest now and the all the
three services are on the same page
you're moving forward with the pace at
which you want to you have a road map uh
to to achieve the goals that you've set
out to achieve sir uh yeah uh we did
that right at the beginning uh when we
set out actually talking to each other
uh me there were the haters after
General raat passed away for about 9
months unfortunately we lost that amount
of time so uh and uh during the first
cdss time probably there was Co and he
didn't get time because of that
physically meetings could not take place
and then there was this uh problem on
the Northern bard this fortunately for
me nothing like this happened I had all
the time and I had all the support of
the three Chiefs with me in fact uh
during a first meeting we organized it
at the National Defense Academy we
didn't do it in Delhi we went back to
NDA we went to the Hut of remembrance
and then came back for the meeting and
thereafter it's been I would say not so
smooth right if they were so simple
actually to iron out the differences
means I wasn't required then so it's
taken some amount of convincing each
issue has been debated uh we would have
met in this past year and 5 months or 4
months I have stayed at CDs more than 13
on 14 occasions where the chief of staff
committee has met and they have come to
certain conclusions which we have
documented they will form part of a
recommendation when the government seeks
it from us sir is the work
hampered by the absence of a national
security
strategy so many years 7 decades plus
after
Independence do we have a national
security strategy do we have stated
goals or are the Armed Forces working in
silos unable to fine-tune their
doctrines and the strategies because we
our national security strategies still
work in
progress uh let me say like this you
know
G uh when you look at National Security
strategy so there's a WR document which
you can say is a policy a policy exists
and then there's a written document then
there are processes and there are
structures there're three uh all three
or four have to be in place actually to
it to succeed so
uh we have the structures and processes
with us correctly had we not had that
probably we wouldn't have been able to
react to a CO situation in a very
calibrated kind of manner or what you
mentioned that Bala strikes or even when
we abated article 370 people thought
that is going to lead to Bloodshed no so
we were able to do that thing quite
smoothly so the processes and structures
are very strong over here now let me
give you two examples you know probably
the most threatened Nation threatened
Nation on this Earth would be Planet
would be I think
Israel and they don't have a n written
National Security strategy the last one
which they wrote was in 1956 Ben goran's
time so they have survived without that
and our immediate neighbor they came out
with a national security policy which is
like a strategy in 20 uh 22 actually and
immediately after that they went into a
whole lot of political crisis economic
crisis that start putting that strategy
or the document in place didn't help
them true so this later part is
important you know uh your policies
there without policy how do you function
only the written document is not there
we are clear as to what our structures
are how do we take DEC strateg decs this
is all well laid out we meet regularly
the number of structures which we have
created so that helps us uh and of
course whenever there's some work on on
that written part also they'll do it so
that should not hamper us actually
because you have a you know the nation
talks about a stated goal uh by 2047 we
want to be viasit bhat a developed
country by 2047 by 2027 28 you want to
be the third largest economy that's a
ated goal as far as our armed forces are
concerned do the Armed Forces also have
Milestones on what we want to achieve
and by when as we move forward to being
perhaps you know one of the strongest
armed forces in the world yeah you're
right so uh recently there were the talk
about you know the national Vision uh
that is 2047 that we want to be a strong
India shash bat uh a developed country
actually Sam bat and uh for this one of
the legs of this would be a military
this thing you have to be a strong
military also so shash bhat should be a
part of that suit the bat or a developed
Nation so as far as the armed forces are
concerned from this National Vision we
trying to draw out a vision for
ourselves which should be applicable to
2047 uh we have trying to divide it into
three timelines one would be of
immediate I say 2027 or so in which we
have
great amount of clarity as to what we
want to do which I just mentioned about
jointness integration and Joint
structures for conducting operations
what kind of capability which we have
which we desire and we will get and uh
the second of course would be a time
frame of 27 to about 37 in which there
is also fair amount of clarity now as I
said you know from 37 to 47 for the
Armed Forces is difficult to predict
because any development Armed Forces
does not follow a kind of a linear
progression so there could be something
which is very disruptive which comes in
like in this particular War suddenly the
drones have come up or hypersonics have
come up in a big way so really can't
predict very very accurately for the
third phase but yes we have some trend
lines and we have something in mind what
we should be in 2047 we also will try
and articulate vision for ourselves uh
maybe uh give us some time and it'll be
stand of
formulation sir I was hearing one of
your um closed door interviews in which
you also said you know your interaction
with with with the forge where you said
you cannot be a strong Nation on
borrowed weapons um and you cannot win
Wars with borrowed weapons what's your
thinking on atbar bhat but first
elaborate on on this sir and then on
atbar bhat should also be there but
operational efficiency of the Armed
Forces should not be adversely impacted
where do you stand on that how do we
achieve that
goal okay I'll take it in a reverse
manner I'll speak about ATA
first uh you know sometimes we are
looking at
ATA from a narrow prism of Defense
manufacturing only I think ATA is
slightly more than that uh self reliance
and atbara both these words actually
start with
self looking at
yourself uh and that will lead to
self-realization and
self-actualization and that
self-confidence which you'll get after
that so it has a broader kind of an
Ambit defense manufacturing is a smaller
part of it so as I said what you quoted
actually that we can't actually V future
Wars on uh borrowed technology and
borrowed weapon
systems uh what actually I meant was we
are trying to chase Technologies and
weapon system which already
exist I'm saying again we are trying to
develop a system or uh maybe a
Hypersonic missile or a particular ship
or a missile which we want which already
exists people have developed and then
the Dru Etc trying to chase it then we
will induct it into the Armed Forces or
change a tactics adopt a tactics to
incorporate that system and thereafter
we'll change an organization if we
continue this process we'll always be
behind that curve we'll never reach
ahead so what uh I have been trying to
propagate for some time now is
that uh a tactics Le kind of a thought
process of development in which uh we
decide as to how we forward to fight The
Future war and uh that is absolutely
unique to our circumstances our methods
of fighting a war which is based on our
kind of a Terrain our realities our
adversaries and once we decide that then
we look at supporting technology and
weapon systems which will fructify that
particular tactics and we when we do
that then beat that curve which has said
you and come up ahead along with the
developed Nations so we'll have to for
doing all this actually there'll be a
lot of mindset change which we will
require that's the focus and emphasis
would be and when we talk of future Wars
we're looking at what's happening around
us in the world a Russia Ukraine war
which was seen as a short sharp Special
Operation has been on for 2 years is is
that a you know our lessons learned from
there and or the Israel Hamas kind of a
situation where hundreds of terrorists
enter a country and carry out the kind
of miim that the Hamas did in
Israel what is the you know lessons
learned from there and the threat that
we face in our in in our
neighborhood uh every war will produce
its own
lessons and uh we can't extrapolate or
assume that these kind of Wars will be
fought in our
context I think uh each War the way it
will be fought is first uh defined by
the political military objectives which
has been set for that particular
War uh that is one and of course
technology uh would be the second thing
uh geography would be another Factor
where this war is being fought the
climate geography Etc all this will
Define the uniqueness of
that particular war or kind of in
Conflict so like uh in the Ukraine war
if geopolitical objective or political
military objective was to retain amount
of territory the lesson is that you know
if you retain territory there's going to
be a very prolonged War so that's a big
lesson actually for us uh and no and
Hightech uh uh you know surveillance
systems Etc are not a solution for
actually being keeping boots on ground
as far as surveillance of your borders
of governance of your borders are
concerned I think these are two big
lessons for us but as I said our
scenarios our Wars which we think would
be based on our geography our threats
and our adversaries and will be entirely
different from what the wars which you
just mentioned sir uh since you
mentioned boots on ground uh that that
would mean uh we would need soldiers uh
to protect our Borders or achieve our
aims off flate there has been tremendous
criticism general of the AG uh you know
where where some people argue some have
argued that they are not as capable or
will not be as capable as long-term
soldiers um and by the time they're
trained Vis deployment at the Lac
they'll be you know perhaps they'll not
as good as the Chinese soldiers that is
being argued where do you stand because
you train soldiers you guide soldiers
you use soldiers in combat where do you
stand on
agns uh again I think
uh me that's a view which I have also
read you know against agiv who is going
to use these
agiv it's a commanding
officer people who are on field actually
is there any uh you know dissonance
among them no see these guys are quite
happy because ultimately a commanding
officer who is at The Cutting Edge of
combat he gets to choose what kind of
people he wants actually in his unit
what could be better than that so people
who are going to use this the AGS have
no problem the people who are going to
use or work with these AGS who will be
part of the team to fight a war or a
combat situation or operationally get
deployed they have no issues the larger
issues are from outside actually some of
them are from our own veterans actually
so I won't talk about others veterans
because you know times have changed but
you know some times you get stagnated
and you think about a particular thing
so I think you have to have a fresh kind
of a look this is a very transformative
kind of in scheme and uh this is not
only for the Armed Forces but it's going
to strengthen the nation actually I
presume and times to come and that's the
way I look at it and uh it's working out
well we've had no issues till now to two
batches are already there on training uh
the first batch uh means uh in 27
actually probably would come out and
there's lot of time for us to know look
at if there are any shortcomings in this
scheme uh but as of now I think uh
people who are using this have mean
taken a feedback from the soldiers who
were there as agns we've taken up a
feedback from the commanding officers
who find them absolutely fine so I don't
think there's a problem on those two
accounts uh it also has a major
advantage if I look at it
strategically you know just mentioned
about long duration war or Ukraine kind
of an War we earlier had the system of
reservist liability with this scheme
there's not going to be a reservist
liability people you earlier people if
he retired say soldier after 17 years
he's a two 3 years of Reserve liability
he had that system didn't work out well
actually we not been able to use it or
test it actually after
71 in this uh by a simple notification
and can increase the terms of Engagement
to 5 years I have 50,000 soldiers extra
for that particular year what better
this thing in times of National
Emergency otherwise we continue like
this I think it's a very good scheme you
think agir is a good scheme it's working
uh and it gives you reservists overall
when you look at the National Security
scenario uh you know it's often said
that armies are used only when diplomacy
fails otherwise armies only in sure that
there is no transgression or your border
is not um uh
vulnerable are our borders vulnerable U
either the northern Borders or the
Western borders is the threat from a
financially weaker Pakistan diminished
or remains as big as it
was uh let me again take the later part
first you know uh Pakistan may be in
economic kind of in turmoil and uh maybe
politically also slightly unstable now
of course they have a proper
garment but uh militarily there's no
been denting in his capabilities
actually and we should never consider an
adversary uh mean we should get full
marks to that adversary that's a better
way of looking at things that's how I
look at things so uh they retain their
capability and they have that capability
so Pakistan remains a threat so you
can't say that Pakistan Armed Forces
will not remain a threat yes there may
be a challenge for them to fight a long
War because of the current economic
problem which they have but they remain
a threat for us as for the borders is
concerned I think uh they're reasonably
well secure uh I just told you know
probably today Himalayas were very very
secure for a very very long time for us
that was but today we as I said you know
this impediments of geography can be
overcome uh today the technology affords
you actually to alter geography
geography for centuries and generations
and millenniums has been the same it
couldn't have been altered and this is
but today technology affords you it can
give you Mobility uh today that's what
has happened actually across Himalayas
so you're connecting passes so a new set
of challenges come up which you didn't
anticipate but then I think we have
today resources uh to take care of our
borders especially the disputed borders
uh in the north very well and the bigger
role do you see a bigger role for us in
the Indian Ocean region and especially
the indopacific how does that hold out
for India in the long run uh does that
also ensure if we are stronger there
than Vis Pakistan we much uh in a in a
better position and vis a uh you know
the northern adversary China that also
puts us on a stronger Wicket does it
yeah so
uh mean I've said that you know our
future or Destiny or opportunities would
lie in the Indian Ocean region uh and
that's a fact of geography which
actually I told you uh if you look at
our major adversary the Chinese and look
at their geography I'll just bring out
some facts of
geography uh so to be a superar if which
they aspire to be they'll have to
control at least two oceans
British actually control the Atlantic
and the Indian Ocean region Indian Ocean
they control because of aen and
Singapore actually and India similarly
the Americans they control two
oceans as far as Chinese are concerned
actually they have a trouble so
geographically they are ringed by a
number of islands actually so but anyway
to P super power they'll have to look at
Pacific and Indian Ocean region if they
have to choose between the two I think
Indian Ocean region would be a ocean of
choice first why because because it sits
astray you know Europe Middle East and
uh the Southeast Asian countries so
between two economic hubs and energy
hubs consumers and users it strides
there so Indian Ocean will remain
important for the Chinese unfortunately
for them access to this ocean is also
denied because you know there are only
four choke points so that's again a
geographical disadvantage for them so uh
for us uh we presume that once the plan
is you know today there are 350 ship
Navy tomorrow there may be in 20 47 or
500 ship Navy when that happens
obviously this area will become
contested but then of course we also
would be stronger by then we also will
be stronger by then
[Music]
or which is where we are moving forward
more assertive in in this uncertain
World General Chan for joining me here
on this India Today special as always
many thanks sir thank you
thank you very much General Chan this
session was sponsored by Kosar uh can I
also invite on stage Dr T via director
of Kosar Institute of Management to hand
over a token of appreciation to General
Chan
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
please
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you very much General Chan ladies
and gentlemen a warm Round of Applause
please for General Anil Chan for joining
us here at the India today
[Applause]
[Music]
conclave
[Music]
[Music]
ladies and Gentlemen let's begin our
next session a Himalayan Marvel gross
national happiness for the 21st century
if I can request everyone to please
settle down to please be seated on your
chairs please
it's our honor to have here at the India
today conclave the prime minister of
Bhutan sering to please give it up for
the prime minister of Bhutan I'd also
like to invite a session moderator Raj
Chapa group editorial director
publishing of India Today
[Music]
group
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
good morning ladies and
Gentlemen please join me in welcoming to
the India today conclave the two-time
prime minister of the kingdom of Bhutan
dasho sharing topg please give him a
very warm Round of
[Applause]
Applause I had the pleasure of uh
meeting The Honorable prime minister uh
in Bhutan a couple of years ago and uh
there were two things that struck me and
this is my first visit to Bhutan and uh
it is not one of just one of the most
beautiful countries for those of you all
whove been there will agree with me but
it's also among the most Progressive it
is the first country to introduce the
concept of gross national happiness
rather than GDP as a measure of economic
growth the second is uh that the aidite
Mr topgay is a truly impressive
politician with innov ative ideas a
committed
environmentalist uh a cultural Advocate
and a yoga Enthusiast inspired I'm told
he tells me that by Mrs to Tob herself
she's here as there Mrs Tob welcome to
the India today
conclave in his second term that has
just begun Mr Toge has promised to
tackle the unprecedented economic
challenges that his country faces in
including High Unemployment uh and um uh
you know a focus to evolve what he calls
or probably would be the gross national
happiness
2.0 Mr topg is currently on a mission uh
uh to boost further ties to boost ties
further uh between India and Bhutan and
I wish him all the best on that Mr topg
may I now invite you to deliver your
address ladies and gentlemen Mr top
gate
[Applause]
thank you for that lovely introduction
Raj delighted to be back in Delhi
delighted to be in India delighted to
meet old friends and make new
friends such a warm reception
[Applause]
your hospitality your warmth your
friendship is
enduring I had the opportunity of
meeting Prime Minister Modi and the
government president captains of
industry all within the span of two days
and here I am
today I did something silly
yesterday at 10 p.m. I had a tooth
implant I extracted a tooth
and at 10 p.m. they
were Dr MAA with very gentle
hands inserted an implant in my lower
jaw I say silly because I knew I was
going to meet
you it didn't even occur to me that I
may not be able to talk and if I did
forget about you understanding me I
wouldn't be able to understand myself so
you'll have to forgive me
I'm going to do something
else
silly
now I'm going to request you to indulge
in me and close your
eyes if you close your eyes and imagine
if you
will that you are a
king you're an absolute
monarch you love your people but what's
more your people love
you you are developing your
country you need to take care of your
people their
health you need to take care of the
elderly in society will you give them
free healthare how will you define your
healthare you want to take care of your
children what type of education system
will you build and will it be free
you want to honor your
ancestors and keep
your traditions and culture
alive you want to keep your brand your
unique culture for your future
generations and you also want to keep
your environment for your future
Generations would you ask King do all
that
what type of a economy would you build
for your country would it be driven
mercilessly by market forces or would it
be sustainable and would you divide the
proceeds of your
economy through all the
people ask King you will need a
government you could rule as a
philosopher king or a benevolent
dictator but would you instead instead
choose to introduce democracy for your
people you are
King this is your
country what would you
do some of you still have your eyes
closed you can open them thank you for
indulging in
me this is the story of
Bhutan if you said yes to most of what I
asked you believe in gross national
happiness and you believe in the ideals
and
principles introduced by our
Kings their overarching emphasis has
been the well-being and happiness of
their people by balancing economic
growth which is a necessity with social
progress cultural preservation
Environmental Protection and good
governance
our Kings have come a long way Bhutan
have come a long way we have come a long
way this journey has been by and large
successful and I dare say it has been
successful
because of the Friendship Goodwill and
unconditional
support of the government and people of
India we are deeply grateful for your
generosity for your
friendship for your
support while gross national happiness
has been successful everything is not
Hodor we Face our
challenges while we choose while we
strive to
balance our economy with a sustainable
environment our
economy is weak it is
shallow and it has taken a batter ring
because of
covid I Turn to You for support you can
support by visiting
Bhutan as tourists as guests as
friends if you visit now it's
springtime you'll see flowers blossoming
everywhere the air will be clean clear
if you can't come
now come in the
summer when it's hot here and humid
here in Bhutan it is cool moist
Lush if you can't make it in the fall
please come if you can't make it in the
summer please come in the fall when it's
a riot of colors autumn colors like what
I'm wearing
now or come in the
winter where the skies are blue glorious
Sunshine every day everywhere
but do
come make time don't just leave it in
your bucket list take it out and visit
[Applause]
us with your help with your support with
your
friendship I know g& gross national
happiness will not just succeed but will
inspire countless millions in many other
countries to Aspire to build better
societies but we must now think of the
next level of g& g&
2.0 what is gross national happiness for
the 21st
century many societies are designing
cities from Saudi Arabia to Indonesia to
Egypt they're building cities
Iraq to
Honduras and even California are
imagining cities now close your eyes
again if you had the power what type of
City would you build what type of City
can you
imagine what if you had a canvas to
build a city and what if that canvas was
2,000 square kilometers
2,000 square kilm is 30% larger than the
union territory of Delhi it is 50 times
bigger than New
Delhi three times bigger than Mumbai
three times bigger than Singapore what
if you had 2,000 square kilometers as
your canvas and what if that canvas now
close your eyes what if that canvas was
not desert was not flat was not
featureless but what if in that canvas
you had
a river Meandering down one
border the river called Manana steaming
with Fish And among them the endangered
golden Masia and on the other side of
the canvas you have the sunos
river
capable ready to generate more than
4,000 megawatt of clean energy and what
if near these Rivers two Mighty rivers
are two old
ancient protected
areas biodiversity hotspots teeming with
wildlife and birds and fungi and
flaws and what if these two protected
areas are connected by a biological
Corridor so
that
elephants and tigers and
deer
leopard bird
can roam freely what
if in the center between the two
national parks the protected areas are
undulating land with water features and
Patty Fields small hamlets what if to
the north are the foothills of the
mighty Himalayas and to the South the
generous
open Plains of Great
India how would you imagine a city there
how would you bring in
the ideals and principles of gross
national happiness and how would you
build a city a city that is built on
gross national happiness for the 21st
century g&h
2.0
visualize visualize
hard would your city being driven would
your city be taken over and be driven by
market
forces or would you design a city aimed
at enhancing the well-being and
happiness of its
residents would your
city has
skyscrapers like any other city or would
it be low Rises would it be
built on Stone on Timber on
mud would it be built
sustainably would it integrate gradually
into our
forest would would your roads and
transport be
sustainable would you continue to take
care of the
biodiversity hotspots the two national
parks not just take care but would you
guarantee it for the next Generation
would your entire city not just be
carbon negative not just be sustainable
but be carbon neutral and in fact be
carbon negative being the first carbon
negative city in the
world
this
city envisioned imagined by his majesty
the king is called the gfu mindfulness
city a
city that will enable people to live in
harmony with
people that will enable people to live
in harmony with
nature that will allow Innovation and
knowledge
to Blossom in harmony with
sustainability and
spirituality this is the gfu mindfulness
city a city for a new
era not just a
model for new Urban
living not just an
experiment in Urban
Design but a journey a journey of gross
national happiness to the next level to
g&h
2.0 for the 21st
century a gift to Bhutan a gift to our
future but a gift to India and a gift to
the
world in a while my friend Bak
Engles is going to take the stage and he
will
describe how
he is going to translate his Majesty's
Vision into
reality keep your eyes wide open during
his
presentation listen to him carefully
with open minds Open Hearts and then
visit me visit Bhutan visit gilu the
mindfulness City and join our
journey into the next century and beyond
thank you very
[Applause]
much
thank you very much ladies and Gentlemen
let's give uh the Prime Minister a very
very warmed Round of Applause one of the
most impassioned speeches that I've
heard thank you and you're you're the
best Ambassador for your country thank
you very
much thank you very much prime minister
can I request prime minister if you
could just be on stage please can I
request Asha jera venture capitalist
Silicon Valley and founder of mwani jera
foundation to hand over a token of
appreciation
please a big round of applause please
for prime minister to G for taking the
time out and joining us here at the
India to-day conclave and helping us all
conceptualize a city of our
[Music]
[Music]
dreams thank you very much prime
[Applause]
[Music]
minister
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
my
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen can I request all
of you to please be seated for our next
session our next session is Ram Raja in
K and it's our honor to be joined here
at the India Today conclave by sguru
jagiasi
you're going to meet a man who has a
devoted following across India and
indeed around the world you're just an
amazing person great talking to you uh
today I look forward to our next time
I've been following him for a while he
wrote a wonderful book called inner
engineering my
I came across this man teachers online
on YouTube and he blew me away I really
really enjoyed this he gave me a lot to
think about I am so honored and so
appreciative to have sad Guru here just
learned a lot from this fine gentleman i
l i l I'm so happy to be here with sad
Guru I'm honored to have you here
today
but I really love this man because he's
a motorcycle driver he's in the world
and yet here's this massive
Guru what do we need to do to kind of
reset ourselves well it's in
engineering we needed a kickstar mind
blowing we have engineered the outside
World in so many ways but we have done
nothing about this one if you want to
know
well-being in is the only way
out for the very first time in the
history of humanity we have the
necessary resources capabilities and
Technologies to address every issue on
the
planet I said what will I do with
billion dollars my interest is 7 billion
people all of us come from the same soil
all of us eat of the same soil all of us
die and go back to the same soil so soil
is a unifying
force soil is not our property it's a
legacy that's come to us from previous
generations and we must pass it on as
living soil for future
Generations welcome to mahashivaratri
in this 20 and odd
years Mah ratri has become a massive
Festival the only one of its kind in the
world right
now it is only by turning inward that we
can create a world full of love life and
love
let's make it
happen can I now invite on stage shivar
senior executive editor India Today
television to take the session forward
with
[Applause]
sguru
sit down
please one
[Music]
minute
mil
mun
sh
Namar namk
you ladies and gentlemen the word kug
like our guest today needs no
introduction uh we use the word uh
kalyug almost as a throwaway term in
common language every single day if we
see something surprising or unusual or
absurd we use the
word it's a word that describes the
fourth age of the Hindu World Cycle uh
marked by decadence and depravity and
darkness a word that is less popular but
has seen a Resurgence recently thanks in
no small part to the
certain Mand that has come up in aodha
is the word Ram Raja which is defined as
an age of fulfillment and peace and all
those other lovely things the opposite
really of kaluk so the question is can
there be a ram Raja a word we're hearing
so often now with
kaluk there's frankly no better person
to answer that question than our guest
today sadguru jagi vasudev seen as a a
yogi a Mystic a Visionary someone uh who
has broken the internet several times
before 4 and A2 billion views on YouTube
in 2023 alone which is an incredible
feat uh he is
someone who is seen by his millions and
millions of followers a growing number
uh as a kind of nucleus of inner
fulfillment which is a commodity as you
all know uh which is uh extremely rare
in the K I'm going to explore that as
long as you see it as commodity you
shall not have it so amidst this
merciless churn that we're all a part of
now we're about to dive
into Enlightenment that doesn't take
itself too seriously and in my view that
perhaps is really the key so I'm going
to start by first welcoming sadguru
thank you sir for your time and for
being here at the India Today conclave
always a pleasure to host you ram
Raja in kaluk over to you namaskar to
all of
you well first of all we are not in kug
let's understand
that this whole kug thing is being
repeated because at the end of
kurukshetra
War Krishna talked about
kaluk but according to the Precision of
the
planet that every 72 years Planet covers
one degree of the zodiac if you go by
that it's a cycle of
25,920
years and it is eight parts of time that
is two satyug to tra through two dwapara
and two kugs and kalyug comes together
so together it is
25,900 uh plus years which is already
over long time ago by
2083 you will complete daper yug and
you're moving into tra yug so very
appropriate to talk about Ram Raj
because he's from that
time so this kalog business is like you
read an old newspaper and you keep
talking about the same thing forever
that was
spoken in
3,140 BCE that is when the kurukshetra
ended so kug is long time over ramaj is
a choice metaphorically it means a
striving a striving for a just
rule I'm insisting on this it's a
striving it doesn't mean everything was
just during Rama's time everything was
not just there's a whole lot of problems
out there but there was a striving who
can strive for such a thing it's very
significant that
we don't refer to him I know of course
some people out of their love for him
call him Lord but generally he is
referred to as
Pur Pur means a UT among the
puras a human being who has risen a man
who is
risen he has risen to a certain height
within himself because this is
essentially a
civilization where we are not waiting
for some Gods to to descend from
somewhere we are always seeing how to
devise ways where a human being can rise
to his ultimate possibility or the
highest possible place that he or she
can be in so in that context we are
referring to
Rama because I'm South Indian I call him
Rama all right we got this issues I'll
be coming to South we will come uh so we
call him marada Ram because he has
risen in some way this has always been
the way of this civilization never
before we have talked about people
coming down from heaven we are always
talking about individual human beings
rising to their fullest possibility so
in that context ramaraja means striving
for a perfect Nation or a just nation
which was striving right through his
life
did he achieve it or not is not the
point the point is somebody is striving
because human life is made like this
only a dead person will have a perfect
life living people can only strive if
the striving stops that's a dead life so
we are talking about striving for a just
Society not a perfectly just Society
such a thing never
happens sguru the Prime Minister talk
about ramaj you were at the pran
pratista of the Mand in aodha as well
you you've spoken about it uh my
question to you
is are we moving towards Ram Raja is the
prime minister moving India towards a
ram Raja see if you are looking at Ram
Raja this is exactly what I said just
now if you're thinking of a perfect
State no but are we striving yes we are
striving like like never before
definitely I believe prime minister has
the intention to strive to create that
nation that all of us want will it
happen tomorrow morning that's a joke if
you think
so it never happens like that it's a
striving if all of us are striving in
that striving our lives are beautiful
not because we got there it's beautiful
life is beautiful because we are
striving for something that we hold as
very
high what in our country right right now
uh you know by the government by the
prime minister or the things you see
around you sguru are indicators to you
that this striving towards Ram Raja is
something that is happening the reason I
asked this question is because we uh
live in a
constantly churning viated atmosphere
where there are polarized opinions as
far as that is only in the new it's not
so in the country only in the newsrooms
it's
viated uh if you live in the country in
the rest of the country apart from Delhi
everywhere everything is
fine so don't believe that I mean you
are supposed to make us believe that you
should not believe that
so so the thing is viated viated where
is it
viated see one uh one lose can shout
something well it's repeated 125 times
in a day on the news channel none of us
heard that
nonsense that whatever some mad nonsense
repeated over and over again on the news
channel is not heard by anybody else in
the country and nobody else is saying
such things so country is not viated
it's a very wrong notion please walk
around the Villages of this nation which
is where we live and we work there is no
any kind of viated Divisions in the
country I I was talking about I was
talking about the political sphere I
take your point about the media but I
was talking about no I'm not trying to
blame the media it's media's business to
highlight that I'm not saying you
shouldn't be doing it I'm just saying
don't believe it because you are taking
out certain things which make news and
that is not the nature of the nation so
in the nation right now there is a huge
striving for economic well-being is
there a striving absolutely absolutely
everywhere there's a New Hope in The
Villages everybody is thinking they will
live better they're already living
better you can say maybe not exactly but
there is a hope because they better
connected they're striving for more and
I think a whole lot of people because we
have schools in rural areas we see
children are eating better it's visible
it's very visible whichever part of the
world I go the first thing I look at is
the rural children if you look at them
you know what is the condition of the
society our children's condition has has
been terrible in the last 50 years but
today you will see in the last 3 to 4
years time young kids who come to school
at 5 or 6 years of age they are little
better
fed uh which is an indicator which is
clearly visible so are they striving yes
they are striving will we get there I
think we will unless we goof it up in
some big way the way the trajectory is I
think in the next 5 years there will be
be a significant change do you believe
that everything will be perfect no that
would be foolish to even think like that
but will people be living better
economically yes it is just that we have
to manage the other aspects of Life
equally well one important thing that's
a concern for me is right now on an
average the soil organic content this is
something maybe a strange language for
all of you because you live in Delhi
because you don't use soil you all came
from Mars Maybe I don't know I don't
know where you come from but the soil
organic content in the nation on an
average is
0.6% the minimum organic content that is
necessary to call Soil as soil is 3% but
we
0.6% this is a disaster unfolding you
come from the south next time you fly
from Delhi to Bangalore or somewhere
every 5 minutes just look out and see
you see a brown desert which you call as
India this is dangerous this is very
dangerous that anytime things can just
fold upon us it doesn't matter how much
industry we do whatever other economic
stuff we do if the soil collapses life
will collapse in a very bad way some of
the responsible scientists in the world
are estimating between 2045 and 2055 20%
of the world's population could commit
suicide mainly because of soil nutrient
deficiency these are responsible
scientists these are not uh you know
Rabel
rousers that that's you know your work
on soil conservation and save the soil
uh is something that we've tracked very
very closely uh and uh uh it's one of
the things that made you a climate
leader as well across the world we've
seen your videos as well sadguru from
from soil I want to sort of drag it back
to a media issue since you've blamed the
media for Med I I describ the media the
media must take the media must take its
share of the blame there's no doubt
about that but uh you know being a
journalist I must explore some themes
that are uh uh you know big headlines in
the media and things that you've spoken
about you know like I said uh sadguru's
videos have millions of views 4 and a
half billion views in one year is
certainly no small feet and one of the
videos that uh you know has perhaps got
some of the maximum views since 201 19
was actually on the topic of CAA the
citizenship Amendment act uh which kind
of went into the doldrums during the
pandemic sadguru it's back now with the
rules being notified uh you were seen as
a proponent of them at a time when there
were large scale
protests 4 years later sadguru what do
you feel about it the government has
decided to notify the reason I ask is
because it pertains to things like
religion Faith government what do you
think it doesn't pertain to any religion
it is too little compassion coming too
late that's my description of
CIA too little compassion coming too
late because when we left people on the
other side of the Border post
partition there was hope that they will
be well taken care of and there was also
promise in the political space that if
there are problems will take you back
but over 75 years they have faced the
worst of the worst and many of them are
moved here over 30 40 years ago and they
still refugees in this country are we
not ashamed are we not ashamed that
people are here and historical blunder
where nations are divided and somebody
fell on the wrong side of the line and
they tried to correct it and they came
over 30 35 years ago and still they
don't have citizenship they don't have
any rights in our country we should be
ashamed of this this is not a
controversy this is a matter of
Shame there have been comments about it
being
discriminat certain politicians have you
know painted those who may come in in a
certain way those things are being said
sir they're not being said by the media
they being said I know but I'm asking
you when there are countries which are
Theocratic theocracy means by
law discrimination all right in the
society there is so much discrimination
it is also there in our society we are
not some perfect Society we have
thousand varieties of discrimination in
our society but by law nobody is
discriminated in this country but in the
neighboring lands by law they
discriminate there is blasphemy laws
which if you just say a word you could
be hung for it when these things are
there if people are persecuted and they
want to come over and that to you put a
cut off date I don't think there should
be a cut off date but you put a cut off
date for whatever reason that's fine as
I said it's too little compassion coming
too late after people have suffered for
decades in the in the kalyug that we
live in right now no we not in kalyug we
in dwap yug okay you're saying it's not
a kug as a as a journalist I think there
are many aspects of kug that we live
through I I'll explain it to
you uh you know elections are a nuisance
is something that sguru had said many
years ago no no I did not say elections
are Nuance let let me let there must be
time for election and there must be time
for administration yeah if there is no
time for administration and only
election is going on and once again if I
say something don't think I'm blaming
you because of 24 s news channels if
there is a byelection in nagaland you
make me feel there is a national
election going
on all
right that's because no election is
small sir it is not small but you must
understand whether it is somebody else
or you or me suppose we were in election
let's say we were politicians standing
for election the nature of the election
is such it's one on an emotional basis
not on the basis of sense and fact and
figures that's not how election is won
everywhere in the world whether it's
United States or UK or India elections
are won on an emotional basis hello yeah
yes so when that is a thing we tend to
say irresponsible things at the time of
election you must give us a margin
because this is a democracy 3 months
before the election we will say all
kinds of things but if there are
elections throughout the 5 years if you
go on saying this throughout the 5 years
that becomes The Narrative of the nation
that is a
problem most people may not know this
and I want to just say that most people
may not know this that one nation one
pole is a is a is a thing on the table
right now uh but it was actually sadguru
Who had who was one of the earliest
people to talk about it he was the first
one of the few people uh I think back in
2008 if I'm not misten when you he had
said you know why this constant 24/7 365
day a year proximity to the next
election every time an election gets
over very close to the next election so
do you believe ramr will be one nation
one
pole I think one important step towards
Ram Raja is one nation one
po
because see right now the argument is oh
because you are going to win this time
you're doing this because people are
saying that to BJP because it looks like
they are going to win but this is the
important thing an election is never won
till it is won anybody who assumes that
will make a fool of themselves no
election or no war is ever won till it
is won so why somebody is thinking
you're going to win and you will be at
an advantage no the problem is this we
have built political parties who need
employment on a daily
basis this is not necessary in any
democracy during the election political
workers and supporters come together and
campaign for election throughout the 5
years they campaign and they're asking
for renumeration for that this is not
the way to run a nation definitely once
in 5 years is all we can afford if you
ask me till we get to 10 12 trillion
economy we should have election once in
8 years I know people will want to kill
me for this but we should have election
once in8 years till we get to at least
12 trillion economy because you are
enjoying the rubbish that you're talking
you must go down to the Villages and
remote parts of the country and see
people are living like cattle till you
change that you have no business to be
talking about nuances of
democracy so not 5 years 8 years no I'm
that won't happen I'm just saying you
need that much break to make significant
progress see if any policy is brought in
any changes are made for it to go down
to the last man in the rural space it
will take 6 to 8 years to get there if
you don't give it that much time before
that policy happens another election
some change will happen another person
will come and reverse the whole thing
this is not the way to run the nation if
you're interested in the people if
you're only interested in your politics
that's a different matter politics are
for people people are not Scapes go
scapegoats for politics let's understand
this sguru there's a great deal of VIs
ible religiosity in politics uh and
apologies for dwelling on politics but I
am a journalist so I just want to
explore some of those themes is there a
lack of spirituality in politics as
opposed
to spectacle and visible religiosity and
this comes at a time when uh you know uh
religion and the state is a central
issue of debate and discussion what
would you call a
spectacle something that's visible
something that catches your attention
like Ram
Temple
yes so you must understand this is the
nature of the
civilization that every small thing
every aspect of our life we make it
celebratory this is the nature of the
civilization if you take that away we
are not baras at all because in this
life if a child is born we will
celebrate we we poke their ear we
celebrate the child eats solid food we
celebrate child goes to school we
celebrate because this is the nature of
our existence because without
celebration no matter what you have you
will become depressed over a period of
time celebration does not mean eating
and drinking as people understand in
Delhi celebration means Joy celebrations
means exuberance of life so to bring
that exuberance of Life many things are
done so our temples have always been
celebration every day there is some kind
of Celebration every day is a special
day today is ekadashi tomorrow is
dadashi next day is something every day
is a reason to celebrate because we
understand human Inner Space so well we
know if you are not in a mode of
Celebration you will naturally move
towards depression the world is going
there watch my words the world is going
there s Guru uh you know you're always
very visible uh you're always in the
news I'm sorry and and
uh uh you know the things you say almost
always go viral uh recently and for a uh
for a an especially a young generation
you were in the headlines when you uh
attended the pre-wedding celebrations of
anant Amani in Jam nagar many of those
videos have also gone viral I just
wanted to show our view remind this
audience about what they saw because
everyone saw this on their phones can we
just play that video very quickly
that so this was that video uh in Jam
nagar that's Diljit dosan the famous
singer uh meeting very respectfully uh
with sguru so my question to you sir is
uh stars and you know tycoons and all
those people over there uh and my my
question is a very simple one do you
feel out of did you feel out of place or
do you feel out of place in places like
this I'm asking I'm asking not a loaded
question I am in place anywhere on this
planet I don't know how I will be on the
moon but on this planet I'm always in
place the problem is
the cameras are on only when you are
among certain people I teach in the
prisons in many parts of the world you
don't bring the cameras we've seen those
videos we've seen those videos yes I
work with the tribals and in The
Villages No cameras come there 70% of
our work is in rural India cameras don't
get on there only when you are in big
cities and in events cameras are on
Plenty of cameras so why would I be out
of place in any way they're just human
beings beings for me there are no
tycoons there are no criminals there are
no tyrants for me there are human beings
and every human being is has a space for
transformation a criminal can be
transformed a tirant can be transformed
a tycoon can be transformed so I am
always on it doesn't matter who he
is so I I'd like to uh you know ask a a
personal question I actually want to end
with this question but since you've
talked about transformation I'd like to
ask you this question uh you probably
couldn't meet a more unspiritual person
than me I'm me you know I'm a
non-believer I'm not spiritual and we've
actually had this conversation before
but uh uh you know in terms of feeling
intensely of Faith No let me let me
clear this what would you say to someone
like me sir since you're saying that
everybody uh you know in that sphere see
everybody wants to be the best I'm the
most unspiritual why are you the most
unspiritual I'm here
yeah because your idea of everybody
somebody says I'm the greatest devote
somebody says I'm the worst uh atheist
it doesn't matter everywhere you want to
be number one don't be that you're
nobody is number one all right it's a
cyclical world we all come and go nobody
was born first are you Mr Adam you're
not right so nobody is number one about
your idea of being spiritual your idea
of being spiritual is somebody who is
looking up and chanting a mantra or
sitting in a temple or a church or a
mosque no they are people who are
looking for some kind of solace in an
established form but spirituality
essentially means that you are a Seeker
see you must understand the fundamental
distinction when you say I'm religious
you refer to yourself as a believer that
means you believe something
when you say I'm spiritual you refer to
yourself as a
Seeker when does somebody become a
Seeker you can become a genuine Seeker
only if you realize I do not
know if you see I do not know you don't
have to label yourself I'm a Seeker the
nature of human intelligence is such if
you realize I do not know it starts
looking it starts seeking so seeking is
not a cocked version of life it is the
nature if you don't mess with life if
you don't mess with your children they
are all natural Seekers if you don't
tell them stories for which you have no
basis they are all natural Seekers but
why do you become a Believer you cannot
handle the uncertainty of seeking so you
become a Believer what will you believe
what somebody said someone means who
somebody that you hold as high or
somewhere it is written written in a
book which you hold as sacred so
essentially you make an authority into
truth in your life it will give you
Solace but it will not give you a
solution a Seeker means he's not looking
for Solace he's looking for solution
where truth is the only authority
authority is not the truth so when you
say I'm the wor I'm the least spiritual
person no no if you have thousand
questions or a million questions that
means you're a Seeker so spiritually
spirituality means it's a seeking not a
conclusion what would you say you know
if someone came to you sadguru and said
uh you know I'm skeptical of
spiritualists and uh you know and and
yogis and Mystics and things like that
what would you say if if they were
asking you to convince them to believe I
tell them even I even I'm very skeptical
of all of them including
myself so so you must understand there
is a difference between doubt and
suspicion doubt is very
healthy you doubt because of that
questions
arise question cannot be
wrong see questions cannot be wrong only
the answer can be wrong so you don't
have any problem that's all I'm saying
as a journalist because you're always
asking questions and questions cannot be
wrong so if somebody thinks a question
is wrong that's because they don't have
an answer so the way we have handled
questions in this world till now is if
somebody asks a question and you don't
know the answer kill the questioner that
is handled well handled in that
generation nobody ever dares to ask that
question once again you kill one man
here in this hall for asking a certain
question you think anybody else will ask
that question again it's settled so
we've been dealing with things like this
that time is over this is the age of
spiritual process because questions will
come everybody will ask questions you
cannot stop them from asking questions
at a time like this this civilization
that you call as bat becomes most
significant in the world because this is
a place even when so-called Divine
entities came we only ask them questions
they could not give us any Commandments
sha came if you open his mouth his wife
she asks him a thousand questions she
freaks him with questions Arjuna Krishna
tries to open his mouth after 36 years
of Association to the person who is
close to him he tries to open his mouth
that that to in an extreme situation
like a battle that guy asked hundreds of
questions you know I was we were
trekking in Tibet and uh they were they
were nearly about 30 plus nationalities
with me and uh one Indian person from
America started asking a
question Indians have 10,000 years of
question asking
practice so he's asking question inside
a question inside a question the
question went on for about 8 minutes and
all the other people their eyeballs were
rolling because they're not able to
figure out what is the question then I
said you stop it you know this an Indian
question you guys won't understand this
because Indians have been practicing
asking questions like this endlessly you
go into any Indian scripture question
inside a question trick questions and
trick questions then one Chinese lady
raises her hand and says sadguru I
worked in the United Nations for 27
years even there only Indians asked
questions this is a fact because this is
a culture where we encourage questioning
because this is a land of seeking this
is not a land of believing we don't have
belief system we seek MTI is the
goal no this is true Indians do last a
lot of questions everywhere uh sguru
says since you do believe in very simple
questions uh you know if someone were to
ask you what should I do in my good
times what should I do in my bad times
what would you say to them if you think
there is a good time and a bad time you
got it all wrong you're alive it's a
good time when you're dead it's a bad
time for
you you're alive and you think it's a
bad time you're missing the whole point
because you must understand how old are
you sh can I ask yes I'm 43 43 44 years
ago where were you 45 years ago where
were you you did not exist yes terrible
time I'll I'll bless you with another
110 years that means 60 years later you
will be again
Dead all
right you didn't you won't exist Your
Existence is just a brief time here in
this you're dividing what is good time
and bad time all of us will be dead for
a very very long time and we are alive
for very brief time in this don't create
good time and bad
time living time is the best time no uh
you know a visual of sadguru comes to
mind every time he talks about good
times and I'm going to uh play that out
once again while I ask my next question
uh these are you know very popular
videos of you come prepared no no no no
preparation we are journalists sir we
don't
prepare uh and so these are images of
sadguru you know dancing you know and
and the jumping during those
celebrations and people love this you
know this is there's a there's a there's
a lovely theme of abandon and just
letting yourself go in these images so I
wanted to ask you sadguru about feeling
in intensely you know we live in a time
when uh you know our emotions are
constantly under demand feel intensely
this way or the other way is that the
way to live to feel intensely or or does
one need to embrace a more kind of
medium
path so once again you must make up your
mind you want to be alive or
dead okay when have you have you been to
any funeral yes not yours I'm saying
somebody else's you've been that man
will be in that perfect posture like
this he
is till yesterday he was hopping around
for so many things you go and tell him
you won the
election he won't
respond he's not interested you tell him
you won a lottery 100 crores he won't
respond not interested you tell him
whatever he won't
respond what happened to him only thing
that he lost his life but suddenly he's
not interested
anything you must understand that's the
only damn thing you have life everything
else is your imagination in your
head so good time bad time richness
wealth money this that if I just take
out your memory I don't have to steal
your account if I take out your memory
you lost all your money right hello I'm
asking you I don't have to come and
steal your wealth if I just take out
your memory or wealth is gone your wife
is gone your husband is gone your child
is gone yes or no so the only thing you
genuinely have is life but that is one
thing most people do not experience
because their misunderstanding their
psychological process as existential
your thought and emotion is a
psychological drama that you are
creating and you believe it is true see
it is like you build a castle in the air
and after some time you start building
leaving it's true then we say you're
neurotic after some time you start
living in that castle then we say you
psychotic then the third person comes
and collects rent for that castle we
call him a
psychiatrist amazing metaphor uh
sguru picturing it in my mind right now
uh you know in the so do not ever think
your psychological reality is reality
psychological reality is made by you I'm
asking all of you right now can you
think of a
tiger hello like the Prime Minister was
asking you to close your eyes I won't do
that but if you close your eyes can you
think of a Tiger Mountain ocean River
flower so you can create any reality you
want in your mind but but now you gotten
into compulsive cycles that you think is
real no it's your drama if your drama is
not directed by you you are a disastrous
drama you speaking of drama sguru and
that that brings me to a question I
wanted to ask as well which is that in
this age I I I know you insist that this
is not kalyug but in this age when no
that is according to the cycle of Earth
not me okay uh uh what is kug and Tra Y
is not a question of opinion okay okay
it's a Time the search for meaning uh
you know has increased in a time of uh
you know post pandemic suffering people
uh you know feeling lonely feelings of
isolation Etc uh has led to a profusion
in some ways of uh you know of quacks
online people who distribute kind of Pop
spirituality in this age and you are so
popular and people follow your words so
closely how do how do people
differentiate
from you know a real spiritualist
perhaps for want of a better phrase and
someone who's fake you know we see
people getting exposed all the time Jay
shetti who is you know globally uh uh
you know praised Etc he's been uh you
know written about recently as having
faked his past Etc how do people
differentiate sir see uh you don't
bother whether somebody is real or fake
if it works for you just do it if it
doesn't work work for you just ditch it
why are you wasting your life trying to
make a judgment whether somebody is real
or fake that's not your business your
business is whether it works for you or
not your following speaks for itself so
there's no question about that but uh uh
you know you've been criticized in the
past I'm sure there are people pursuing
all the time nobody has criticized me
endless abuse abuse so I want I want no
no that is one thing that's uh yeah that
I want to talk about how
how do you handle the abuse because I
imagine because the abuse is in their
head why should I handle it I don't
handle the abuse see they're they're
constantly writing fiction about me I
live it to them if they're enjoying it
well if it impedes my work then I deal
with it otherwise whatever anybody is
saying I don't respond to it because
it's in their head what can I do see
right now for example I'm sure this is
all over so I will say
this we are about 130 km away from a
elephant
Corridor but there is a whole bunch of
people who keep on saying we are on the
elephant cor 130 km as per all records
government of India government of Tamil
Nadu the World Wildlife Fund everything
says this but some people will keep on
saying because on the social media there
is no pry law if you tell a lie you
don't go to prison in this country
country by telling a lie you can win an
election you can become a chief minister
or some other minister by telling lies
so there is no pry there is if you get
into any defamation laws it is you who
suffers not them because you get trapped
in the court and its Pro processes
unless it is done like that that you
know if somebody publicly tells a lie
quickly it can be proved if it is proved
a lie they must they must pay for it
there is no such law it's very difficult
to do it because when half a billion
people lie how do you create prisons for
them there's no possibility so it's all
right after some time people learn to
filter what is a lie what is the truth
people understand 5 10% of the people
will believe the nonsense you it's okay
what to do do do you do you uh separate
sguru the abuse from criticism there is
never been any seriously there's never
any criticism only abuse because I'll
tell you you know apart from save the
criticism means you must take something
that I have done and you must point out
what is the wrong thing I did there if
you simply SPO Venom that's abuse there
are there are many amazing things that
uh sadguru and the and his foundation
are doing uh I I heard from your team
that there's a uh Miracle of mind uh
program that's going to be rolling out
later this year that is to do with
mental health the reason I wanted to
explore the theme of abuse is you know
if someone came and said something
constructive to you sadguru they said
you know who is sadguru jagi vasudev to
talk about Ram Raja how would you how
would you engage with
that see I'm made like
this I listen not only to people of
position anybody a man woman
child a dog donkey tree I'm always
listening
I am who I am not because of anything
because I listen I listen not just to
the words I listen to all the things
that are not spoken that's why I am who
I am I'm not spending my time reading
I'm not spending my time getting PhD
somewhere I'm just listening to
everything to every life it's because of
that I am who I am so criticism I don't
see any issue with that I don't see
words as criticism somebody is pointing
out a certain
fact if it needs to be corrected it's
corrected without even thought about it
I don't even see it as a criticism first
of all I don't see what is praise what
is criticism I just listen to where
they're coming from and that's about it
for me because my life is not enhanced
because somebody Praises me my life
doesn't diminish because somebody abuses
me I'm not made like that if I close CL
my eyes my life is
done well we've certainly listened to
every word you've said today sadguru uh
and you've given us a great deal to
think about so thank you very much
ladies and gentlemen sguru
jagas thank you very much sadguru for
joining us here at the India today
conclave can I request Dr P Shamar Raju
Chancellor of Reva University to please
come up here on stage and hand over a
token of appreciation to sadguru please
hi a you becoming a
star she's a South Indian girl
yeah
namaskar a big round of applause please
for S Unity
bangal his cousin oh really
[Music]
family
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
than
can I request members of the audience to
please be seated so we can kick off our
next session
[Music]
[Music]
please
all right ladies and gentlemen our next
session is conscious urbanism designing
a mindful City and it's our honor and
privilege to be joined here at the India
Today conclave by BRK Engles can I
request you to please come upon stage
founder and creative partner of the bark
Engles group and our session moderator
Raj Chapa group editorial director
publishing India Today group please put
your hands together I request everyone
to please be seated for for our next
session
please just a minute yeah let everybody
leave
yeah good morning uh everyone please do
settle
down okay I think we'll
begin uh my job of introducing bra uh
inels has already been done so
brilliantly uh by the bhutanese Prime
Minister Top gay in his address early
this morning and uh which actually makes
my task much much easier in fact uh I
was uh I need to say that uh you're one
of the greatest architects of of the
modern era I was also going to say uh
just in in a general way that
architecture reflects uh the grand
tapestry of human
civilization the footprints of human
progress if you could call it from the
ages uh from the Great Pyramids of Giza
uh to the Magnificent temples and
monuments we have in India I don't know
if you've seen any of them but you
haven't I would advise that you do uh
and and that even today architecture
continues to have the power to shape the
world around us that it repes represents
in many ways uh how we see ourselves as
well as how we see the world and that
byak Engles represents the epitomy of
all that uh he that he founded the Bak
Engles group in 2005 with the acronym
big and he does think big really really
big um and uh I was also going to say
and I you know saw experts describe him
as the best representative of the new
generation of Architects who combined
shrewd analysis playful experimentation
social responsibility and
surprisingly very good humor and lots of
fun but I'm not going to see all this
instead all I'm going to say is that Bak
Ang Gill's work speaks for itself and so
I'm now going to invite Bak Engles to do
so ladies and gentlemen Bak
Engles
thank you thank you um I I I would like
to take you on a on a little journey uh
of um of let's say my architectural
Journey that has now uh given us the
opportunity to uh to imagine with the
with the king of Bhutan the the the the
future city in uh on on the border of
India um but maybe starting with this
photo this is uh a photo of all of the
richest people in Denmark and me um it's
it's essentially the family that makes
Lego um Lego is a is a company that has
made everybody believe that Lego is from
their home country uh but it is from uh
from my home country and um we we were
asked to design the the the home of the
Lego brick uh and we tried to imagine an
architecture that would be as inviting
and engaging and inclusive as Lego is
itself
so the roofscape is a series of
interconnected playgrounds where you are
invited to play uh on top of the
building the building is open in in all
four corners so you can roam a Public
Square where light passes between the
galleries above you can roam around
without a ticket and and then it may be
one of the only museums in the world
where you are actually invited to touch
all the
artifacts and I think that's the point
uh I want to make about Lego is that
Lego is not a toy it's a tool a tool
that empowers the child to create his or
her own world and then to inhabit that
world through play and to invite her
friends in joining her in co-habiting
and co-creating that world and that is
essentially what architecture is uh the
Danish word for design is form ging
which literally means form giving
because when you're designing something
you're giving form to that which has not
yet been given form in other words
you're giving form to the Future because
when you're designing a space or
building you're giving form to the world
or at least a part of the world that you
would like to find yourself living in in
the
future and and this can be very literal
like we're working with NASA on a
project Olympus where we are imagining
uh the first permanent human settlement
on the moon uh it will be made by using
solar powered lasers to melt Moon dust
into uh uh this kind of obsidian U so
essentially the first architectural
tectonic of what will be the the first
permanent human presence on another
world than uh than Earth um but there
are also much more uh terrestrial ways
of of Imagining the future uh two
decades ago we designed the Copenhagen
Harbor bath that essentially extends the
life of the city into the water around
it uh we also designed the harbor bats
in in Aus and um on on the opening day
when we suddenly saw the copenhageners
jumping into the into the water we
realized that this might be a bigger
idea that uh that you know a clean Port
is not only nice for the fish it's also
amazing for the citizens that suddenly
the copenhageners didn't have to drive
for hours to get to the beaches they can
literally jump in the port in the middle
of downtown Copenhagen and we thought
maybe this is really a new idea and and
we called it hedonistic
sustainability the idea that the
sustainable City or building not only is
better for the environment it's also
much more enjoyable for the people that
live in
it and and we've been pursuing this
promise of hedonistic sustainability uh
ever since uh this is copen Hill uh it's
a waste to energy power plant in
Copenhagen uh it's so clean that the
steam coming out of the chimney is
cleaner than the air of Copenhagen uh so
we've been able to turn
the we we've been able to turn the
facade into the tallest man-made
climbing wall uh in the world uh if if
you're too afraid to climb the facade
you can ride an elevator inside you can
admire all the technology that scrubs
the CO2 and filters particles from the
air and you can reach the roof that
we've turned into a man-made uh Mountain
uh Denmark is a country entirely without
mountains uh so uh this is actually the
the place where you can Alpine Ski in
the middle of the city so it in a way
it's it's it's turning this kind of
Marvel of modern engineering into
something blatantly uh clear that almost
like one of the main landmarks of of
Copenhagen is uh a building that turns
the waste of the city into District
Heating and
electricity um maybe a few sort of other
examples uh you don't have to build like
an entire power plant or a city to make
a statement uh this is a one room hotel
we built on the Arctic Circle in the
North of Sweden um it's essentially you
you living inside a swarm of
350 uh bird houses so you wake up in in
the morning with a bird tweets uh you
shower together with a squirrel uh and
and you're literally surrounded by by
life uh uh
360° beneath you uh and above you so um
so almost like a complete Devotion to
immersion into into
nature um another example we designed a
museum in uh in Norway in a Sculpture
Park and and we designed the museum like
a bridge that's expands uh across the
river uh two galleries uh resting over
the uh the
river uh and and essentially it's made
out of standardized extruded uh aluminum
uh elements all of them identical uh on
the inside it's made out of normal uh
Timber painted white but by gently
adjusting the position of each uh member
we create this kind of sculptural form
so you can say it's creating out of a
lot of ordinary elements something
extraordinary and you can say the museum
is is not only a museum it's also a
bridge and and also a sculpture in in
its own
[Applause]
right in uh in balaba in Prague we're
designing the national philarmonic of
Prague which is essentially connecting
all the way from the from the river to
the roof uh sometimes philonic concert
Halls can be very elitist institutions
this one is made as inviting as possible
so even if you have no interest in
symphonic music you are actually invited
to uh to to walk on the roofs and you
might suddenly uh like wonder what's
going on inside and and you might
suddenly buy a ticket to a concert even
if if you had no intention so
essentially again to try to make the
kind of elitist cultural institution as
accessible uh and enjoyable as uh as
possible and and and May sort of lastly
as an example uh our our own
headquarters is located in the in the
industrial Port of Copenhagen uh and we
try to sort of design it uh so that it's
a seven-story building but no matter
what floor you're working on you are
visually and physically connected to the
to the floor above and the floor below
so essentially uh all people are working
as one team uh in one space even though
it is a a seven-story building so trying
to break down the vertical segregation
ation that that happens in a in a
physical space so so this is what our
workspace used to look like but then of
course in in 2020 suddenly we had to go
entirely remote because of the lockdown
uh except um except our model Workshop
uh we found out that the materials and
the 3D printers we use to make
architectural models could actually be
used to making emergency
medical like B Shields and ventilator
tubes so in the first 6 weeks of the
lockdown we managed to manufacture
25,000 of these
artifacts them to the local Healthcare
Providers and um and it gave us this
idea it felt like almost by accident we
organization the skills and and the
tools to address what was one of the
most urgent uh uh um needs in the world
at the time access to emergency medical
equipment so we thought is there another
big problem that we we can address with
our method and uh and and sort of um
proficiency as as Architects and and
planners um and we thought why don't we
look at at the other range of the scale
what if we actually make a sort of an
architectural Urban plan for the planet
um so um we started with a with a
number 173,000 terawatt hours per year
that's the total energy consumption of
all of humanity in one year and uh if
you look back 200 years we've always
been burning wood uh to heat our homes
uh but then we discover coal oil and gas
and it becomes this incredible access to
energy even today Renewables is a very
small part at the top and and this
incredible increase in energy also led
to an incredible increase in quality of
life if you measure it like life
expectancy on every continent you can
see the more energy we get the better we
live but of course it also has a
negative side effect every year we emit
50 billion tons of CO2 uh and and
another one and another one every year
and it it creates this layer in the
outer atmosphere that traps heat and and
is cooking our planet you know the story
so the green gases come from Mostly four
different gases CO2 methane Nitros oxide
and F gases and they come from a range
of human activities and so to create a
simple um framework for the plan for the
planet we divided the problem into five
vertical Transportation energy industry
food and waste these are the sources of
greenhouse gases and and climate change
uh but there's another five verticals
that are unrelated to climate change but
that are essential to address if you
want to have a sustainable human
presence on Earth so that's biodiversity
Health pollution habitation and and
access to to
water so because this is a a short
little uh overview I'm only going to
talk about uh climate change also when
we started the the idea we were 7.7
billion we're 8 billion today uh we will
be 10 by 2050 so it's a slightly bigger
problem to solve for and we should all
have access to the same quality of life
as say Denmark so it's actually double
double the challenge if you like so um
to make it tangible we boiled the
problem down to one Earthling so if
we're 10 billion Earthling like this is
this is a 100 earthlings uh you know if
a million earthlings would gather they
could stand on one square kilometer and
and if all of Earth would go to a giant
Woodstock concert uh they could fit uh
on 100 by 100 kilometers um but since
we're talking about Earth being able to
sustain us uh what if we actually divide
all of Earth into 10 billion equally
sized plots of land um each of us will
have
225 by 225 M to sustain us uh 2/3 is
water a tenth is uninhabitable and
roughly one hectare is habitable half of
it is nature and the other half is
pretty much agriculture with a little
bit of
city and this is where all the problems
come from so if we start by looking at
energy energy is two3 of the emissions
uh we use energy to power uh our
buildings our transportation and and our
industry all of these industries can be
powered with uh a um
electricity uh uh with with current
Technologies so and if they become
electric we can power them instead of
using uh oil coal and gas you can say
today each of us spent this much oil
this much coal and this much gas to
sustain us in one year it's our equal
share of the energy consumption you can
actually deliver the same amount of
energy with this much wind and this much
sun and if we have the same energy
consumption as Denmark we need need a
little bit more uh and we need to store
that energy with with batteries and
hydrogen uh hydrogen can essentially be
used for like a whole range of uh of
activities uh you know electricity but
also feriz Plastics uh green methane um
we already started converting our Fleet
we have 1 billion vehicles on Earth and
we're already making them uh battery
powered but if you would try to uh Power
a Boeing 747 with batteries the battery
pack would weigh 15,000 tons making it
very difficult to fly uh so there's a
whole range of industries that require
hydrogen as a as as a fuel
source then if you look at industry some
of the emissions from industry come from
power but some of them come from the
chemical processes for instance um when
you
um uh when you burn time to create
cement you emit CO2 into the atmosphere
so if we replace materials like for
instance every time you replace one ton
of steel or one ton of cement with one
ton of wood you lower the carbon
footprint of the building with 2.2
tons there's everything we throw out of
course we can recycle all the materials
uh but all of the organic waste we can
actually turn it into biomethane which
is essentially the same as natural gas
but it turns our waste into a renewable
resource similar to the waste to power
plant we we designed in in
Copenhagen and then there's the
agriculture the biggest footprint uh the
burps from cows and the rice fields emit
methane into the air uh when we burn
crop residue we emit CO2 uh uh into the
air when we fertilize we emit nitrous
oxide uh and finally every year we
expand our Agri culture roughly one
square meter per person which emits CO2
from deforestation and and and
Roots so just looking at at at some of
the things this is actually energy crops
so these are crops we grow only to burn
so we can actually produce the same
amount of energy with photovoltaics um
much cleaner and and much more compact
uh instead of burning crop residue we
can turn it into biomethane turning it
into a circular resource um instead of
leaving the the land fellow we can Grace
it with cattle uh and that basically
leads us to the the elephant in the room
or the cow uh a cow and a calf emits 100
kilos of methane per year they need two
hectares of of grassland um and 100
kilos of methane per year is the same as
108 tons of CO2 when it comes to to
global warming
to sequester that much CO2 you need one
grown tree per ton per year it just so
happens that 108 trees fit perfectly on
two hectares of grassland and the
natural habitat for large herbivores is
silvero pasture the combination of of uh
of forest and uh and grassland so if we
convert to Silver pasture we get happier
and more productive cows we increase
biodiversity we increase yields and the
trees will sequester the CO2 that is
coming from the from the burps of the
cows so for instance if you look at the
last 50 years um the land we've been
using to grow cereals has remained the
same but we've more than doubled the
output so simply by converting to
already existing proven methods uh like
silver pasture and and ply culture on
existing Technologies of best practice
we can actually take the necessary area
needed to sustain an Earthling
sustainably from this uh to
this and if you add the necessary area
for windmills and and sun and we can
even combine agricultural area and and
uh and renewable energy production so
you can see the the the footprint
necessary to sustain Humanity can
actually fit comfortably within the area
that is already available uh to us so so
suddenly it shows and and you know this
is this is for one person uh this would
be to sustain all of the Dan and this is
Denmark this is to uh Power and and feed
all of the Americans and this is America
so and and of course this is this is
Earth so so what we're basically
learning as is that very often I've
heard that if we all had the same
quality of life as the west or let's say
Denmark we we would need like eight
Earths to sustain us and and it's
actually not true and also I often hear
that we have to invent new technologies
that don't exist otherwise it won't be
solvable and that is also not true I
mean of course the more energy efficient
we are and the better Technologies we
have the better but we actually have
available all the tools we need we just
need to put them into practice and we
need a plan for that and and of
course such a plan has to happen at all
scales we need to uh Electrify our homes
so we can power them with with renewable
energy uh we need to sort of up upgrade
the building envelopes so we don't lose
heat or or or cold we need to build with
sustainable materials we need to harvest
the renewable energy that is that is
available we need to move between our
buildings with uh sustainable forms of
transportation and it's actually very
easy to make our cities more walkable
and bikable by making them
Greener uh we need to convert to uh best
practice we need to harvest renewable
energy we need to convert uh our waste
into a resource to power our industry
and our transportation we need to
convert to best practice agriculture to
free up Green Space so we increase
biodiversity and the trees from the
forest still sequester the CO2 we we
still emit so essentially at every scale
we need to have plans for implementing
this like very simple and and readily
available uh uh
solution so you can ask like what what
sense does it make because obviously we
we're not commissioned by by Earth to
make a plan for Earth but um but I can
already see by having made the plan for
the planet it has given us and our
clients and collaborators an overview
and a Clarity we didn't have before and
we've started aligning all the projects
we do with the principles of the plan
for the planet this is a factory uh we
built in in Norway it's the most
environmentally friendly Factory in the
world it's built from locally sourced uh
Timber it's powered by local hydro
electricity uh we negotiated with the
fire department that we only had to cut
down 5 MERS of forest so the evergreen
trees actually shade uh the the the
glass so you're working you you're
building Furniture inside a forest um
the the timber Factory lowers the carbon
footprint but also makes a a beautiful
work environment for the for the factory
workers it's it's powered by photo
voltaics and the roof is covered in
habitat uh for for the local
species um we're building the new
airport in Zurich it's going to be the
largest Timber building on earth locally
sourced uh Swiss Timber so again
significantly reducing the the carbon
footprint uh of the building and also
when you land in Switzerland you can
almost smell that you've arrived in uh
in in the Swiss Alps um The Roof is
covered in photo voltages powering 2/3
of the of the airport in Singapore we
created uh capita spring uh a place for
for people to to live and work we
converted one of the streets into a park
uh the ground floor of the building is
open as a as a public space and and
inside you have a vertical Park that
connects the residences below with the
with the offices above all the way to
the roof where we have an urban farm
where they grow all the produce for the
for the
restaurants
um in uh for the European commission uh
we are designing the uh The Joint
Research Center for sustainable
Construction in seia and it's the
hottest city in Europe uh it's covered
it's a public space and a and a a
commission building so by covering both
the building and the public space in
phal tes we create a shaded public space
uh naturally ventilated but by shading
the square we can actually leave the
facade of the commission transparent so
the the citizens of Europe can see what
the Commissioners are doing uh but at
the same time this canopy uh uh creates
a comfortable outdoor environment and it
produces twice as much power as the
building
consumes uh I I had the opportunity to
speak about this project in uh at the
Vatican and uh if you ever have to visit
the pope and you wonder what to give him
usula felion already gave him a framed
photo of the of the joint Research
Center I'm I'm not a Catholic but if I
was I think this could be my ticket to u
to go to heaven um and and maybe lastly
for for Google uh we designed their
headquarters in in Mountain View the
landscape you see around that beautiful
parks are actually root Zone Gardens
that filter all the waste water so we
collect all the water from the roof and
then all the waste water is filtered
through these beautiful root Zone
Gardens before it's l clean into the bay
uh the the dragon scales of the roof is
actually photovoltaic panels that
convert sunlight into into
power so I think all of them are
examples of how our sustainable future
not only is better for the environment
but can also be more fun to work in and
and More Beautiful to to to live in so
so of course as an architect it's rare
that you get to apply all of these
principles in in one go on on a on on a
city uh but that's exactly what happened
when the the king of Bhutan uh reached
out uh uh a year ago and invited us to
come to gfu in in the south of Bhutan On
the Border to to India uh and think with
him about making uh an entirely new
administrative Zone that could be
attractive for the younger generations
of the bhutanese and the Indians and the
surroundings to to to settle but based
on the principles of of
Bhutan Bhutan is an incredible country
because nature is preserved 70% of
Bhutan is covered by Forest it
sequesters twice as much carbon as as it
emits it's defined by these river
valleys that run through the the
Himalayas and you have Agriculture and
and and living uh integrated it's it's
also a country where the history is
still very much alive the the kind of
beautiful dongs and the kind of arts and
craft is still being built today the way
it was 400 years ago and that also means
that you have a a visual Urban
environment where color and craft is
omnipresent which makes it one of the
most beautiful places I've uh I've ever
been um and it's it's also a place where
spirituality is everywhere and and I I
loved uh sat guru's definition of
spirituality as seeking uh so
essentially everywhere you go
spirituality and and celebration and
sharing of wisdom is part of part of the
practice and and they've taken all of
the principles of vajana Buddhism and
baked it in to the nine parameters of
the gross national happiness index
measuring their success as a nation by
happiness rather than economic output so
we thought for the mindfulness City we
would take the nine measures of national
happiness and use them to define the
programs of the city and also translate
them into design principles for for the
sort of Urban Design of the of the
city so imagine the mindfulness City uh
as as a place where nature is enhanced
rather than displaced by the by the city
where agriculture is integrated into the
urban environment and where the
tradition is still very much alive and
celebrated even in the Contemporary uh
architecture so the the place gilu will
will sit on is more than a th000 square
kilometers uh it's two natural reserves
bridged by an ecological Corridor where
tigers can m
in the highlands and where elephants
migrate from India to like from from the
Himalayas to India uh so the rivers
really characterize the the the the
landscape and the scenery and you have
people living among the uh the rice
fields so we developed a principle where
the city essentially sits between the
highlands and the border to India we
create these ecological corridors that
allow the elephants to migrate through
the city un un numbered connecting from
the Himalayas to to India uh we also
have a gravitational uh sort of R shed
so that we get almost like these kind of
major city parks and then like
neighborhood parks along the smaller
streams uh and then the neighborhoods
become almost like rice fields like
little Terraces that Cascade down the
the Himalayan Hills and then the city
gets denser and denser the closer you
get to um to India then you have
essentially a regional corridor that
connects to the the surrounding major
cities and and India a kind of Lo local
Transportation Hub for public
transportation and then a little like
Community Street uh uh at the North uh
and everywhere these Transportation
corridors cross the rivers a a bridge
becomes a major public building both uh
a connection and a destination so here
you see the airport itself is actually a
Bridge Crossing Three Rivers uh and when
you move closer
you can see like how how the city is
really defined by these linear parks
that uh that move through it uh also as
a principle you have six stories uh on
the lower levels uh and up until single
story in the highlands and that is
essentially possible to buildt entirely
with mass Timber it's the greatest
natural resource of of Bhutan and and
it's the most sustainable way to uh to
build so we sort of sat down with with
the local Architects and developed a
whole family of building types where we
combine the available craft for like a
single family a kind of
multigenerational family or even a kind
of community um which means that when
when you put these building types
together you actually create this kind
of perfect coexistence of of old and new
um the the local streets have permeable
Pavements so that water can penetrate
through creating a resilient uh
environment you have the waterfronts of
the rivers uh if you when you go oh high
you have people living between the the
the rice fields and and finally in the
highlands you have like very sort of
reclusive and and sort of uh uh sort of
possibilities for for extreme levels of
of mindfulness and then for instance the
the airport also entirely made out of
mass Timber and and and modular becomes
a kind of statement of of arriving to to
this to this new uh new place uh a
varana Buddhist center that is a bridge
so when you cross from one neighborhood
to the other you you see you know um
spiritual leaders uh uh doing their
practice as you pass through the uh the
bridge uh um a healthc care bridge that
combines uh Western and and Eastern
medicine but also is a passage from one
part of the city to another a university
uh a young child going to school in the
morning can see what the the older
students are doing and dream about uh
their their future uh the market uh
again a destination on on top of the
river and a connection between between
two neighborhoods and and maybe as the
last
Bridge the entire city will be powered
by renewable energy so we're building a
a dam the river basically comes from the
Himalayas and it continues into to India
so we thought to uh design the the the
dam as as as a temple Bridge as a as a
bhane interpretation of the Indian step
Wells the entire facade is made
accessible uh so you can actually walk
in a thousand different pilgrimage
routes down the face of the dam to a
kind of present
[Applause]
day a a present day equivalent of the
tigers's nest uh so that um as as you as
you visit Bhutan and and this region uh
it somehow consolidates all of the uh
elements of the mindfulness City it's
taking a piece of infrastructure and
turning it into uh uh uh spirituality
it's taking a piece of engineering and
turn it in into art so um so so maybe um
with with so and and and in some way I
could see that maybe the temple Dam
could be for the mindfulness City what
what the ivel tower is to Paris or the
or the Sydney Opera is to
Australia um so maybe just to end uh we
we presented uh the master plan together
with the King uh at the national day in
uh uh in Bhutan in December and and
currently uh accelerating the work on
the dam and uh and on the on the airport
and and maybe just to end to give you a
a a glimpse of of the future of the
mindfulness City we've created a little
film that in in three minutes explains
what what I did in in half an
hour Bhutan is the vajana Buddhist
capital of the world a special place
where wisdom and compassion have forced
a unique way of
life fiercely proud of their Traditions
bhan have preserved their cultural
values for centuries through a joint
effort focused on sharing teaching and
caring their communities thrive on
Collective well-being growing a society
that measures its Nation success are
nine indicators of
Happiness a land of mountains forests
and rivers Bhutan is one of the world's
last remaining biodiversity hotspots and
its first carbon negative country after
centuries of perfecting a life of
harmony with others and nature hutan is
now ready to show the world how to
create a sustainable human presence on
Earth descending from the Himalayas to
the tropical Plains an uninterrupted
flow of water plants and animals shape
the mindfulness City cascading Terrace
Fields become Lively neighborhoods
nested along naturally connected
ecologies inhabitable Bridges span
across biodiversity corridors connecting
communities both physically and
spiritually with centers for Innovation
education and
Recreation the city may lead you on a
journey of Discovery to connect with
your body mind and
soul a home for meditation and a place
for togetherness where knowledge can be
shared taught and practiced with the
world's spiritual
leaders the mindfulness City will join
traditional with new finding a balance
that is both respectful and creative a
constellation of public squares provide
centers for cultural Gatherings and
festivities while a network of social
infrastructure supports the community's
everyday needs people of all ages
abilities and backgrounds will share
knowledge and ideas to grow future
Generations into the leaders of Tomorrow
bhan Arts will be preserved and
traditional craft will expand through
handmade and advanced
technology to build a city where
engineering is Art and nature is power
the mindfulness City will become a
Gateway a bridge between local and
Global past and future nature and
Humanity it will be an invitation to the
world to participate in the bhutanese
mindset to learn to teach and to share
its values towards growing and more
sustainable
future a big round of applause please
forkel thank you so much for joining us
here and teaching us how to div up and
urbanize mindfully can I invite on stage
lit Kumar Jan president thermal
Hindustan power to please hand over a
token of our appreciation please Engel
can I request you to be on stage please
oh yes
[Music]
yes a big round of applause please for y
[Music]
inkles
[Music]
[Music]
oh
[Music]
all right ladies and gentlemen the next
session is one You Don't Want to Miss
theori Mystique the rule book for
becoming viral influential and stylish
can I invite on stage our moderator
sonel Vijay digital editor lifestyle
Edition India Today group to introduce
the
speaker
hello everybody if like us your
Instagram algorithm is adamantly set on
Paparazzi reels of Malaya M walking her
dog in bandra and Sara Ali Khan going in
and out of her gym chances are you have
stumbled upon paparazzi's hooting the
words Ori Baba left and Ori Baba
right AI has risen to fame more so in
the last few months with everything that
is going on for him from a collaboration
with Netflix his Wild Card entry into
the big boss house and appearance on
coffee with Karan to being photographed
with ran at the recent Jam nagar wedding
it's okay to say that this is A's world
and we are just living in it I welcome
on stage Oran aat ranii who needs no
introduction because if we are being
honest we don't know what he
does if I was you I'd want to be me too
i'
i' W to be me i' to be me i' to be me
hello hi son thank you for being in
Delhi thank you Delhi for having me okay
I'm going to start my interview with the
first question that pops up when I
Google you Ori okay why is AI so famous
nobody knows that and I'm going to add
to it how did you get so famous so
quickly okay sonal why am I famous now I
can lie to you and say I'm famous cuz I
have a pose I'm famous CU of the work I
do on myself but really I feel the
reason that really brought me into the
liel light is I am the famous and friend
and there's no there are not many and
friends that are famous there's no John
V kapor and friend and the and friend is
famous there's no Sahar Alik Khan and
friend this one and friend so I really
think being that and friend the tag that
no one ever wanted is the tag I've
really built on proudly being the and
friend it's a full-time job so you're a
professional friend is all what you are
Prof and friend professional and friend
and friend it's not a friend it's an and
friend okay okay um you work in the news
when you post a picture of someone and
you don't know who's in the background
it's the and friend so I'm the recurring
face in all the pictures so you agree
that a lot of your popularity is
dependent on I can't deny that I'm not
here to deny what's obvious and not the
media personalities who so in my first
interview with you I remember that you
said I don't want to talk about any of
the celebrity names and now you've come
such a long way I'm not talking about
them it's about me I'm the and friend
this this is the story and the journey
of the and friend okay so this is A's
world and they all just living in it
there we go okay um they're the
variables the and friend stay oh that's
a smart one so this is how you got to
becoming famous so quickly one of the
major reasons yes okay um okay so your
circle of friends is mainly celebrity
children and now they have all become
celebrity this is and friend this is
like the poster for and friend there's
one recurring face in all the photos and
that's this one right here correct okay
um so a lot of them get trolled for
being nepo babies right and you're
you're an outsider equally privileged um
how did you get around to becoming
friends with all these people and what
do you think about them constantly
getting into the whole bracket of being
nepo babies nepo babies nepo babies how
did I become friends see each one has a
different story and we don't have the
time to say how I met this one or that
one and how we clicked but with the tag
line of nepo babies I feel nepo baby
nepotism has been given such a negative
connotation but if you apply to the
college your parents went to and you get
preference to go and you're called a
legacy child and it's treated so well in
University and so well in high school
when you apply they are Legacy Kids
doors do open for them easily but that's
cuz their parents have worked hard for
those doors to open I'm an outsider
technically in this industry the doors
that open for me may not open for them
and the ones that many open for them
I've had to work very hard to have them
opened for me but I would like the same
opportunities for my kids when I have
them that the hard work that I've put in
my kids can inherit so you're not
competing with the first generation kid
you're competing with the second
generation kid right when you own a law
firm and your son easily gets into your
fm it's the same privilege a nepo kid or
like I like to say a legacy kid gets in
film like today if I'm friends with
directors and producers and they ow me
owe me favors I'm going to cash that
favor for my kid why would I not want
that privilege for my kid I have worked
hard for it right today an outsider be
it I'm not an actor but be a Kari and
his kids will be nepo kids should they
not benefit from the hard work that a
Karthik Arian has done should shahak
Khan's kids not benefit from the hard
work shahak Khan has put in right cuz
not you're not all someone is not born
an Insider right you're not just born
like that your parent is and they worked
for it you know if I had if I had a
rupee for every time you said hard work
and working hard on myself I'd be very
rich
sorry work hard Ed me I was 74 kilos the
top comment was he keep saying I I work
on myself I go to the gym but he doesn't
have the body of someone who works on
themselves I'm 51 52 kilos today that
comment really stayed with me and I
worked on myself I really did look at
I'm not wearing a t-shirt or a shirt
inside cuz the body can doesn't need it
anymore I have to give that to you AI
you do work very hard on
myself yeah so I think I think your face
phrase working hard on myself is is what
Karina Kapoor did back then for that
generation of jabby Med when when she
said favorite who I think working hard
on myself became like the mantra for
jenz sonal you have one life live your
best life you're not working on yourself
and you're not your own favorite person
I cannot sit here in this suit with my
ories on it and you be my favorite
person or someone else be my favorite
you have to be the main character of
your own life and I think a lot of the
young audience resonated with that
because they've not been doing it maybe
or maybe they've been doing it so much
they were proud that someone said it and
they can be like now I'm following that
Trailblazer what do you feel about your
privilege do you carry it lightly or are
you very do you take it very seriously
what privilege the fact that you come
from a family uh that is a certain way
the fact that you you went to school
with a lot of celebrity kids who and and
that got you that access everyone has
their own silver spoon and their own
limitations the Privileges that have
been given and you've not and the
limitations that I have that you don't I
wear them as like a bloody flag coming
out of my shoulders like it's my cap I'm
here to flash all my privileges I don't
need to show you my limitations no one
wants to show the sadder sides of life
but why would you not be an opportunist
of the things you are born with why
would you not take full opportunity of
the things that are your Birthright why
would you not do that why would you not
be proud of that right so if I've been
born with something why would I not
proud
L have that and proudly take advantage
of that be be greedy for your
opportunities be greedy for your
Ambitions you have one life be greedy
for whatever you want and don't let
anyone tell you you can't and don't let
someone who doesn't have what you have
tell you oh you're privileged cool I'm
privileged let me live my life let's
move on right
okay um okay so a big part of your
influence is your party content I think
uh I think as a media house sometimes I
feel like we struggle to get the party
content quicker than you do because
you're so quick on your social media and
I know you handle a lot of it yourself
which not a lot of celebrities do um
recently you were at the biggest party
in town in Jam nagar this is actually
one of our favorite videos uh of you
doing terrible
Garba but you tried I tried I tried okay
uh how was your experience of being in
Jam nagar um jam nagar and what's been
cre there is really the most unreal
place in the world it's every part of it
has been so well thought of and well
executed um the wedding was amazing
vantara was beautiful and just
absolutely amazing and yes I like to be
at every single party um when you talk
about privilege and this and that what
other people say I don't want to be at a
pity party I just want to be I want to
be the life of the party I want to be at
the coolest party I just don't want to
be at the sad self moping parties and um
that being said my experience with I
love Rihanna for the longest time I
didn't know who she was and I read her
Instagram name which is bad gyi but I
read as balgir so I've been following
badal giri on Instagram and I loved her
badir as in sister of nilgiri
basically and um I'll tell you a little
marketing trick I have which maybe I
shouldn't be releasing so early it's
called o o o but you can also call it oo
I objects of interest but objects of ay
I'll make a little Museum one
day in my outfit or my costume of the
night there'll always be a talking point
so I knew Rihanna was coming and I've
been on stage like what do you think of
right now I'm speaking but if you're
performing what are you thinking of
you're looking at the audience I'm
looking at all you beautiful people I
love your hat I love your shoes I love
your scarf and your print so I knew
Rihanna would be looking and I had to
have a beautiful object of interest on
my head and I've worn these giant
dandelion earrings knowing she'd see
them and rightfully she did and she
stole them and she came and she said I
would like the earring please and I was
like well of course and I looked at my
friend take out your phone take out your
phone this is the moment I I I like
brought these earrings for took out the
phone took off the earring gave it to
her 7 minutes later she's lost the
earring and has come back for the other
one and so I like pinned it on her top
so now we've got now you've got rihana
of course you've got pictures with the
whole Amani family you've got deika
ranir pictures with
everybody Pok who's on your radar now
which celebrity would you like to get
photog with
Taylor just say it the PM oh that me
just you need to hang around here until
tonight and that may just happen it may
just happen yeah um okay um see the one
reason I know you're never doing
Bollywood films is because you have
terrible Hindi we can we can agree to
that right sure but it's script reading
I can learn the the script okay I had to
but interestingly on world Hindi day the
Delhi University students made a a real
on oriali Hindi so now you have
something called the Ori speak okay is
your Hindi really this bad or do you do
this for virality so it is hilarious
because I woke up to my Google Alerts
going off saying Delhi University
celebrates National Hindi day with
oriali Hindi where all the students are
coming on stage and speaking AI versions
of Hindi and I loved it and I myself
can't speak AI Hindi cuz I myself don't
know what I'm saying because
unfortunately I can't think in Hindi so
I'm thinking ofi I actually grew up in
Tamil Naru but um I'm thinking in
English and then there are a million
aies in my head scrambling to get the
words in Hindi like so I'm thinking hi
my name's orhan and all the aies in my
head are running what is my what his
name what is
Oran translating it into Hindi and then
printing it into Hindi and it's coming
out on my tongue in this jumbled paper
mashe version of Hindi and it's I'm
struggling in my brain have you ever
seen SpongeBob with there like a 100
SpongeBobs in his head trying to make
things happen when I'm speaking Hindi
just know that every gray cell is being
squeezed to its fullest so if you saw
big boss which is in real time live
hindy and I'm giving it back to Salman
Khan and I'm saying h under here and I
thought I was saying I'm blind but I've
called myself an egg and audience really
loved it I was
like
what the struggle I went through to just
get that sentence out my God the SATs
were easier than
that okay um you've come around to
become a pop culture icon for a certain
generation for a certain kind of
audience recently you signed Dharma
Cornerstone talent and what where does
that go do we see a fabulous life of AI
do we see coffee with AI where is that
going to take you sonal to be really
honest I hate work so yes I've signed
with DCA cuz if not DCA who else would I
sign with but if you're going to sit
here and ask me am I seeing a show
coming along that's work and I don't
want to work on anything other than this
and that's the God's honest truth so as
of right now no I can't tell you
anything's on the horizon okay so very
cooly you called yourself a liver in one
of the
interviews um I think you're more of a
kidney with amount of parties that you
do but you really have a strong kidney I
must say that I want to say I'm more of
the heart yeah I'm the friend we'll get
that but I want you to describe these
other parts for me I'm going to ask you
a few questions and you have to tell me
the first person that comes to your mind
who is A's right
hand I don't know not your right hand
somebody who gets things done for you um
I want to say my team my team of 8 to
nine managers those are my right hands
they're like a lot of them like you know
when you see those dances and that
woman's 100 hands come out I like many
of them who is a these ears somebody
who's always keeping you updated a
friend who's no one is keeping me
updated on anything I'm finding the
Instagram explore page is my ears I'm
finding everything over there and in the
comment section trust me no one tells me
anything and who's got A's
back that that a lot of people I'll say
have my back any anybody that comes to
your mind I can't pinpoint one sonal
there just too many of them that I know
that tomorrow if you bully me there'll
be there will be people will come after
you so interestingly you do call out a
lot of your trolls for when they troll
you I do I would like to separate trolls
and haters I keep my trolls on payroll
they keep me very relevant keep the
engagement up my haters yes people tend
to think that oh he's such a celebrity
we can just go trash him on the comment
section he won't see it cuz most
celebrities don't check I check I as
much of a hater as you are and I will
trash you right back right there in the
comment section if you insult me I will
insult you and people think like oh he's
a public figure he won't use trash L yes
I will my life has no rules if my
parents are okay with me doing something
and I'm not breaking the I will abuse
you right back I will call you out Mr
hater and I will abuse you with worse
insults okay or on that note um my last
question in my last interview that went
supremely viral where you said I'm
working on myself you did that a year
ago one year later can I get an upgrade
to this
interview what does Ori do I am holding
you very responsible since the day I've
said I'm I'm working on myself and I've
gone viral and then I said I'm living
I'm a live I've gone double viral I've
gotten so popular and with so much media
attention that my managers just think my
Google Calendar empty Slots of places to
shove work so since the day I said I'm
working on myself I'm living I'm a liver
I've become a bloody worker every day
there's a new commercial there's a new
talk there's a new something and I I
don't want to be a worker I just don't
want to be a worker I want to quit okay
thank you AI thank you for your time it
was lovely speaking to
you thank you very much Ori thanks s for
getting us that
session can I request Sam matur MD of
marha to please come up on the stage to
hand over a token of high appreciation
to aie
[Music]
please a big round of applause please
for AI the new social media sensation
keeping it as real ask can
[Music]
get thank you
everyone thank you very much
[Applause]
[Music]
Ori all right ladies and gentlemen we're
all set for our next session India's
path to a 10 trillion economy this
session is sponsored by mwani jera
[Music]
Foundation I'd like to invite on stage
the session moderator Rahul Cav news
director TVN and managing editor special
online projects executive director of
business today to take this forward and
introduce the speaker to
[Applause]
you
over the past several hours we've been
talking about how Indians across the
spectrum look at the India story whether
these are members of the government or
members of the
opposition looked at from the outside
what does the rest of the world make of
the India story at this moment to talk
about this we're joined at the 21st
Edition of the India Today conclave by a
very special guest all the way from
Switzerland the president of the world
economic Forum ladies and gentlemen can
we have a very warm Round of Applause
for bur BR please thank you very much
for coming down you were here just in
March so to come back again so soon
after your last visit uh is very special
and we deeply appreciate this so thank
you Mr Rand for joining us thank you
it's it's great to be back where there
is optimism oh fantastic uh because yes
indeed India is one of the points in the
world where there is spark and optimism
given some of the Gloom that we're
seeing on a macro level given where
India is at this moment how do you at
the world economic Forum see India's
position change on the global high
table so uh firstly congratulation on
the conclave uh great to be here um this
is India centur uh India is the fastest
growing of the large economy is uh in
the world remember when we met in Davos
I said to some of your colleagues that
um we expected almost 8% economic growth
in India at least at the last quarter
last year and they said that I was too
optimistic we have no seen the numbers I
would say they were too pessimistic so
uh on India uh we are very bullish and
it's not only for this year or next year
we foresee
that India will be growing for the next
25 years uh
provided of course that the reforms are
continuing and it's not only that is
growing but is also growing at the pace
that it's helping and supporting the
rest of the world I think many would be
surprised if they learned that 15% of
all Global growth last year came from
India so one single country providing
15% of the Global growth so it's of
course then um creating jobs in India
and opportunities but it's also a win-
win it's also with its demand creating
opportunities for the rest of the world
so we do expect that India will meet um
the 10 trillion US dollar economy uh in
the next decade we do predict that India
very soon will be the third Lar economy
in the world and then I also launched an
interview with you um last year this
notion of
G3 I think the G3 is no effect so let's
speak about that for a moment because as
you can see B is a very uh strong India
Bull and you coined this idea of G3
which went viral in India and everybody
here loves you for that but
internationally there was a bit of a
push back saying that you know you've
left out say Europe you're not really
you're overestimating the size of the
India story
and it's not as bullish and optimistic
as you'd like to believe given that
almost a year has passed since do you
think we are closer to achieving the
idea of a G3 or do you think we're
drifting further
away I think it's there uh because you
have the US economy as the largest in
the world uh China uh number two and uh
there is just now a question of months
before India will will take uh the role
as the third largest economy in the
world of course you can have this notion
of G3 that I coined of course you can
also say there is like a G4 or G5 or a
G7 that we currently have but I'm I know
that um for India now it will continue
uh if the reforms continue to be at the
Forefront of growth and very
interestingly we are now seeing that the
emerging economies of the world where
India is uh no among the real leaders
together um with uh China is now 50% of
all the global growth comes from the
emerging economies and that will
continue for the next decade um when it
comes to growth according to um the
economic uh statistics that we are uh
looking at and and from 2040 we are
expecting that the emerging economies
will be accounting for 60% of the
overall Global growth so this is um like
a snowball and you know uh a snowball is
small at the beginning but if it starts
to roll it gets bigger and then it rolls
faster and that's India today wow you
know in case you didn't follow uh what
Bor said earlier he said that the coming
decade will be the decade of the G3
three which is uh the United States
China and India the difference that I'm
picking up from what you said last time
to now is that you're saying that the G3
is already here so it's not a concept
that You' explained as being the reality
of the future you're saying we're almost
there're already there that's that's the
difference now 10 years ago India was
the 10th largest economy in the
world today India is the fourth largest
economy in the world it's incredible and
very soon the third largest economy in
the world so I think uh the G3 coining I
think I'm um I'm I'm I'm very confident
that that will hold and it will even uh
then de develop further because the
growth is faster now in India and of
course there's a lot of things working
in in India's favor the geopolitics is
working in India's favor because there
is
uh a change in the global value chain so
you do see a lot of companies then
establishing themselves and production
and Manufacturing uh in India secondly
you have so much of uh a youth uh
Surplus you you have one of the youngest
uh populations in the world so 75% of
your population are in an age where they
can contribute to work and on top of
this you ALS also have fiscal
Prudence it's maybe a bit boring but it
is extremely important because you see a
lot of indepted countries that are using
most of their money no one paying on
their debt the interest India has been
able to be fiscally prudent and there
are reforms the reforms have to continue
though as so let's spend a moment on
that because you've you've spoken about
what you think is going right give us
your sense of what more you wouldd like
to see from India and from the next
Indian government to be able to achieve
uh the target of being A1 trillion
economy beyond the reforms that have
been implemented this moment what are
the structural uh reforms that you'd
like the next government to push get red
get rid of more red
tape um more infrastructure Investments
that is already happening you know um it
is real momentum there invest in even
more in education every child in India
should have access uh to good primary
and secondary education and that's
building also of the strength of India
today where India is very digitally
literate so taking into consideration is
1.4 billion people and even a little bit
more than that um the digitally
connecting uh is at a very high level so
no one has to capitalize on that I think
also to be a real hub for manufacturing
we see the second largest economy in the
world China is 30% of all Global
manufacturing is happening in China we
are seeing more companies now
establishing themselves in India too but
I think uh there you also have to look
at the tariffs because today
manufacturing is getting input factors
from different countries so you get part
of it from Bangladesh you get something
from Malaysia something from Vietnam but
you would like to put it all together in
your country and then you produce higher
up in the value chain you got the profit
you can pay people better salaries and
of course then you have to also look at
the tariffs on those products input P
input factors that you put into that um
uh production and Manufacturing but all
this I think is gradually happening and
that's why you're seeing also the growth
you know as all of us know India is on
the cusp of the world's largest
Democratic exercise and one of the
biggest risks the world economic Forum
flagged when you came up with your uh
top Global risks report was the Menace
of artificial intelligence and deep
fakes and the challenge this poses to
electoral democracy given that this year
itself we've already had a few elections
in countries like Indonesia and
countries like Argentina uh how much of
a threat do you think this is at this
moment given that in a few days from now
our first phasee of polling will begin
for our loab elections one has to be
very Vigilant about it I I think uh we
can guarantee that the two of us are
real here um what you see is is is real
but we have no guarantee that uh this
can of course then be put into something
deep fake so I can be saying something
else and I literally has been saying if
people play with it and
unfortunately there are a lot of people
believing that everything they look at
in social media is true so do people do
come up to me and say yeah but I I read
that on Facebook or read it on Twitter
and said okay yes then it has to be
true uh maybe but I think we need to
learn that things has to be taken with a
pinch of uh salt and that is not
necessarily uh the reality so we have to
vaccinate also against that people
believe everything that is in the social
media you know when I grew up uh I read
edited newspapers where there was an
editor making sure that everything was
correct in the paper and the Young
Generation now will need to maneuver in
a situation where of course they look at
the papers and they are still very good
uh and also I know that India Today take
big uh pride in that but they also have
to learn to take with with a big pinch
of salt what we're seeing uh in social
media but this is a reality this will
not change it will just accelerate and
the whole artificial intelligence uh the
Gen AI is a real game changer we think
it's as
impactful as the internet maybe even as
electricity uh was so the world is
changing much faster but one has to make
sure that you use the AI to the benefit
of
humankind and I think there is huge
productivity gains that we can see in
the coming decade maybe even 30% and
productivity is really Prosperity if you
can produce the same with less resources
you can pay people better and you move
up in the value chain so you have to
embrace it of course we need traffic
rules and I think India is also uniquely
position to gain from these new
technologies because you have digitally
people you have hardworking people you
also have the key critical mass when it
comes to digital and digital services so
but it has of course then to go through
unicorns and to then become the big
companies of the future isn't that a
very elite way of looking at artificial
intelligence because we also have a lot
of people who don't have the skills and
could possibly be on the wrong side of
the artificial intelligence Genna
Revolution where they left jobless
unable to find and unable to come to
terms with a changing World a lot of
work can now be done through
automation it is true that every
change represents both an opportunity
and a challenge so we know that some
countries uh were the richest one after
the second world war and are no lower
middle inome countries and some are the
richest countries uh in the world so if
you don't embrace the technology and use
it uh
proactively you can lose out in this
Global uh
competition and of course I'm worried
that some of the new technologies can
lead to a Winner Takes it all because we
seen that in the platform economy but at
the same time we also see that when you
move from the hardware phase of it to
the software phase of it there will be
unique opportunities for a lot of
smaller and medium-sized companies and I
think the e ecosystem in India uh is of
that kind and and things do change like
you know in Switzerland where the world
economic for is based 100 years ago 95%
of the population worked in the
agriculture sector and it was not
producing enough food today 3% works in
the agriculture sector and they produce
too much food and where did all those
people go of course they moved then to
sectors that are producing higher OPP in
the value chain and that's why
Switzerland is one of the richest
countries in the world so you also have
to use the enormous resources in that
labor to then uh produce more
effectively and use that labor into
other sectors it maybe sounds very
economically but you know it is really
not more advanced than Common Sense
unfortunately common sense is not always
that common let's spend some time on the
two big crisis that the world faces and
I'll start with Russia Ukraine because
uh for Europe in particular that's the
number one challenge given the fact that
President Putin is stronger than he has
seemed in the last two years and that
Ukraine for various International
reasons is not being able to push back
in the way that the world would have
wanted where do you uh see the Russia
Ukraine conflict go from where we at
right
now so there were a couple of premises
in your question that I would like to
dwell on so President Putin uh wanted to
take Ukraine he thought he was going to
take Ukraine in a
week and he is one of the largest
military powers in the world wasn't able
to so Ukraine pushed back and that was
in a situation where they had no Western
weapons they had all old Russian weapons
today uh there is still an ongoing War
uh there's only losers in this war of
course in Europe we're much closer to
this conflict and you know also how
particular you about your borders and
rightly so and Ukraine is also quite
particular about their borders it's not
that they borders were disputed they
were agreed in The Budapest memorandum
uh the borders of Ukraine so uh this is
an ongoing uh conflict when it comes to
the Russian economy the Russian economy
um is still growing but it's growing
because it's no a war economy overall we
seen three million people young people
left uh Russia these are young Math
teachers scientists and Engineers we're
also very bearish on uh Russia's ability
to diversify its economy in the years to
come so hopefully uh there will uh we
will find a solution uh to uh the war in
Ukraine based on international law I
think international law should always
been uh be at the basis of these kind of
negotiations and when it comes to Israel
Palestine uh given the fact that Israel
has been bombarding and attacking
different parts of Gaza but still hasn't
been able to achieve its military
objectives which is to wipe out the
Hamas and given what we're seeing in the
Red Sea with the attacks of the huis how
do you see that war progress what's your
sense so uh I hope um for um a ceasefire
I hope for humanarian assistance to the
people uh in Gaza I also hope for a
solution uh in the future where the
Israeli people and the Palestinian
people can live friendly uh next to each
other also based on the two-state uh
solution uh it looks very complicated uh
today but of course uh 7th of October
when uh Israel was attacked by Hamas in
a terrible terror attack um has changed
also the way many Israelis look at this
and I think uh also the way the world
look at at Hamas but still we should not
forget that the aim in the future should
be that the Palestinian people and the
Israeli people can live uh peacefully
next to each other
lastly let's spend a moment on the most
unpredictable election of all this year
uh the election in the United States uh
give every no not not the Indian one I
guess huh are you confused about what
may happen no no I I I was uh that was a
rhetoric question we we have to live up
after you know gone through Gaza and the
Ukraine I thought we had to get back to
a little bit more like bullish uh
atmosphere but you're sorry no no more
certainly uh given the fact that in the
United States at this moment nobody can
say with any degree of certainty what
may happen in November what do you think
is at stake for the rest of the world
given that lot of polls suggest that
Donald Trump has a very serious chance
of being reelected as
president so let me um come to the
essence of your question by just uh
stating a couple of
facts at the
beginning India is the fastest growing
of the large economies in the world
fastest growing of the emerging
Economist but the US economy is doing
also really well so a year ago we're
talking about the recession in the US
then they said oh it will be a soft
Landing there's no landing at all the US
economy is growing really strongly
there's a reindustrialization in the us
where we see companies moving back to
the us we see an optimism uh in the US
that we haven't seen for decades and we
are very bullish on the US economy
moving forward they have the critical
mass they have the large companies
headed mostly by
indian-americans uh it's also very uh
interesting so the US is in a good place
economically their political system is
is not in the same uh good shape it's
very uh very
polarized uh and that's going to
continue uh until the elections but I
think the US can deal with this and we
have to deal uh also with um the outcome
of uh the US uh elections no so I
remember in January when we were at the
world economic forum and that was one of
your uh big themes of conversation in
the corridors and the sessions was
around what happens if Donald Trump
comes to power how do you see the
response to that question so what
happens if uh Donald Trump gets
reelected so um we can listen to what
policies he wants to implement every day
so we can make our own assessments of
that the world economic forum is a
neutral uh impartial International
Organization we had Donald Trump twice
in Davos we uh had had also President
Biden uh when he was vice president uh
in Davos so we will deal with uh the
administration that uh the US people uh
do elect of course some Nations
especially China is very worried because
uh you heard Donald Trump has said that
he will put 60% tariff uh on on China
he's also said that he will put 10%
tariff on
uh other nations uh I think uh we will
see more and more clarity on the
policies uh moving forward but as I was
saying the US is now a fast growing
economy under Biden but the US economy
was not doing badly during Trump either
uh especially before Co that was of
course a GameChanger but the policies
that um secretary minuchin was
responsible for as a treasury trory was
by many uh in the business sector uh in
the US uh seen uh as a very um sober uh
economic uh policy I I guess you wanted
more sun bites on this part you said
you're very very swis right very neutral
not wanting to lean in on either side
and that's totally understandable B BR
thank you very much for joining us for
this session and we will be hearing more
from the president of the world economic
Forum in a session that we have later
this afternoon so do stay back for that
thank you for your time and thank you
for coming here thank thank thank you
for inviting me thank you very
much thank you very much uh Mr Brandy
request you to stay on stage can I also
request Asha jera venture capitalist
Silicon Valley and founder of mwan jera
foundation to join us on stage and hand
over a token of our
appreciation a big round of applause
please for Mr BR for taking the time out
and joining us here at the India today
confli
[Music]
[Applause]
all right our next session is the
generational shift my idea of a vixit
bhat sponsored by
radical can I invite to on stage the
session moderator anj om Kash managing
editor special projects ajak to
introduce our next
[Applause]
[Music]
speaker for those whove been following
politics in the country you know that in
various States especially in the Hindi
putty as we call it the my
combination has been seen as crucial for
the victory of a lot of regional parties
like the samajwadi party in uttar
Pradesh or the rjd in Bihar but now it
seems like the BJP has found their own
my and no prizes for guessing this one
right it's moan yadav the chief minister
of madha Pradesh the my of BJP please
welcome him on stage with a huge round
of applause
[Music]
is
[Music]
i
[Music]
m
chunav
SE
for
Congress
[Applause]
spot the CM
contest C
no
December
no you're
wrong San
s
[Laughter]
s
s
sing
for
part
m
for
part
n
B
GDP agult grow
r
m
Rajasthan Gujarat MP maybe 28 out of 29
biar 39 out of 40
saturation
for
con
con
[Laughter]
[Music]
foric
C
C
and
n
uh
or congress parachute
Landing
con
Congress
mod
Sur
gu
GR
Tri
singan
C
[Music]
SCH
[Applause]
ch
Ed
a big round of applause please for chief
minister moan can I request to come on
stage Mano Sharma CEO of publishing
India today to hand over a token of
appreciation to The Honorable chief
[Music]
minister thank you very much moan yadav
G for joining us here at the India today
[Music]
conclave and with that ladies and
gentlemen we'll break for lunch being
served right opposite at the shajahan
hall also a quick reminder that you can
catch our special discussion the gazing
table where top India Today group
editors anchors renowned thought leaders
will be coming together to unpack what
the future holds so you can catch the
discussion live it's happening in mumas
Hall by invite only but we will be
playing that out live for you at the
Shah Jahan Hall enjoy lunch we'll see
you back here at
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
2:15
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
21st edition of the India today conclave
and a quick shout shout out to our
sponsors the indiia today conclave
presented by RP sanjie goenka group
powered by Kosar co-presented by mwani
jera Foundation our conclave partner
Hindustan power project group knowledge
partner Reva University tourism partner
Gujarat tourism partner ultr Tech cement
celebration partner radical ketan
conglomerate partner darn festive
partner martial arts banking partner SBI
International School partner ssbm and
gifting partner Walder built
[Music]
session viral from Israel Gaza war zone
a stinging comic commentary I'd like to
invite the session moderator shivar
senior executive editor India Today
television on stage to introduce our
very special speaker
[Music]
so before shiv comes on let's just give
you a glimpse about our next guest and
what makes the next session so
[Music]
special
apologies just give us a moment we're
going to be playing that out for you in
just a brief
moment joining me now to discuss the
conflict in Israel and Gaza it's a TV
host in Satur is Bassam youf Bassam it's
great to have you back on the program I
wish it was under different
circumstances um first of all what is
your reaction to What happened on
October the
7th oh it was terrible of course I mean
we kind of get our news kind of also
secondhand because you know my my wife's
family they live in Gaza they they have
uh cousins and uncles there um and uh
their house also was bombed we haven't
been able to communicate with them for
the past 3 days communication are lost
so we don't know actually what is the uh
how is like how are they're doing but
you know we're used to that I mean it's
it's just like it's it's it's very
repetitive we used to that we used to
them being bombed every time and moving
from one place to the other
uh you know it's just like those
Palestinians they're very dramatic ah
Israel killing us but they never die I
mean they always come back you know they
they're very difficult to kill very
difficult people to kill I know because
I'm married to one I tried many times
couldn't kill her I mean there's a dark
humor there and I understand why because
no it's not dark humor I really I try to
get to her every time but she uses our
kids as human Shields I can never take
her out I would say I really applaud
Israel for doing one thing that no
military
force in the word does because I heard I
heard Ben Shapiro and I heard Rond
santis and they said they said Israel is
the only military force in the world
that warns civilians before bombing them
I mean how cute that is so nice
of them because with this logic if
Russian troops started warning
ukrainians before bombing their houses
we're cool with Putin right I mean okay
Habibi you have warned them go invade
it's fine you have done your job
all right ladies and gentlemen that sets
the stage for our next session viral
from the Israel Gaza war zone a stinging
comic commentary shivar on stage to take
this
forward uh I I really don't know how to
introduce our next guest after you've
watched that video uh fun fact I
happened to be in Israel when that video
actually dropped so uh it was something
that absolutely exploded now Basim YF uh
someone all of you have heard about uh
that video got 22 million views when it
first came out and it spawned an
entire uh ecosystem for want of a better
word uh of knowledge and awareness about
what was happening uh between Israel and
Gaza and Palestine uh this is a man uh
ladies and gentlemen who fled from Egypt
in 2014 uh knowing full well perhaps
that the war for freedom of speech
expression satire commentary was going
to make him someone who would spend
perhaps the rest of his life on the run
so we're very very lucky to have someone
who continues to spend his life
provoking commenting satirizing and
making fun of the most serious things
happening in the most dangerous parts of
the world it is our deepest honor to
welcome basam
YF
[Music]
that's a very scary
visual hi everybody I am very pleased to
be here in India by the way this is my
first time ever in India and this week
yes this my first
time and and this week is very special
for me because in five days I'm going to
turn 50 years old so the last thing I
would ever imagine that I would spend my
birthday in India and I have to tell you
I've been here only for two days man New
Delhi this is Cairo multiplied by a
thousand W like I live now in Los
Angeles and everybody in Los Angeles
 about traffic and I tell them if
you haven't been to Cairo you haven't
seen traffic and the thing is this is
what we do as brown people we like to
compete with white people with who has
the biggest misery it's like oh you have
traffic wait listen to me you know but I
have to tell you after two days in New
Delhi you
win we cannot compete with that kind of
traffic I thought it was alhamdulillah
you guys are amazing so it is amazing
that I'm here and I am very very pleased
to be here and it's such an honor and I
don't know like I I thought a lot about
how to start my speech so I thought of
starting a speech of maybe like an un
usual um way maybe quoting someone that
you might know and the quote goes as
starvation of an underfed bengalese is
less serious than that of sturdy Greeks
that was Winston Churchill responding to
the news of millions of Indians killed
in the Bengal famine in
1943 Churchill was also the one who said
I do not admit that a great wrong has
been done to the red Indians of America
or the black people of Australia I do
not admit that a wrong has been done to
these people by the fact that a stronger
race a higher grade race a more worldly
wise race has come in and taken their
place now I know that my presence here
carries certain expectations of talking
about certain topics or might I say one
certain topic but it is all connected
human stories across our history with
their pain struggle grave injust jce are
all connected the stories might come
from different parts of the world
different eras of our past but at the
core they are more or less the same
story it's a story of who writes the
story who owns the narrative and who
manipulates the truth Winston Churchill
was a hero to the British Empire he is
even considered by many as the greatest
Britain that ever lived but for India
and for many other ex British colonies
he was a racist Colonial and hateful
enemy same goes for many European and
American politicians leaders and
Military commanders all through history
someone's hero is another one's Colonial
nightmare but we don't write the story
they do it is also a very old and
repetitive story throughout history
humans killed other humans conquered
humans enslaved humans exploited humans
from an evolutionary point of view we
are animals but we don't want to feel
like animals I won't just get up and
kill you in the morning who do you think
I am an animal no I'm human I am evolved
I only kill if I absolutely need to so I
need a justification you are a threat
you are a danger you brought it on
yourself but most importantly you are
not as human as me under the Nazis
Jewish people people were called rats
it's not that easy to put a human in a
gas chamber but a rat put 10 put a 100
put a million it's just a rat an animal
a subhuman lower than me you can't just
take another human put him in Chains
enslave them torture them and treat them
like animal you need to see him as an
animal as a Savage as someone who
doesn't deserve to be human it's their
color it's their primitive culture they
are less than me you can't just starve
or kill whole population you need to see
them as Unworthy of living killing
humans is difficult but doing it because
of feeling Superior entitled that's easy
in short humans have been consistent
about one thing and one thing alone
being to other
humans throughout our history we killed
people because they had the wrong
religion the wrong color the wrong
ethnicity but they don't even have to be
different even with people who looked
sounded and believed the same we like
the we are managed to find
something anything to excuse ourselves
for our shitty behaviors towards others
maybe we can't help it maybe human
nature is by nature a shitty nature but
there is the problem humans actually
believe that they can do better after
World War II with the formation of the
UN and the universal Declaration of
Human Rights and the spre of Nations
Independence around the world and the
Civil Right movements and the fight for
equality and prosperity for all we
thought that we could evolve into better
humans that the atrocities that happened
in the past will never be repeated never
again we are not primitive anymore we
are not in the Dark Ages anymore we have
defeated colonialism racism and
Injustice we can do better and finally
become human how embarrassingly naive we
were we maintained our brutality but we
became more creative in justifying the
 we do to other humans all because
we became more connected to reality you
see a long time ago we weren't aware of
what's Happening far away from us if you
were a resident of ancient Athens or
Rome if you lived in Spain or Portugal
in the 1600s if you were a citizen of
England or France in the 1800s you would
have enjoyed a good life under the power
of those Empires but this quality of
life was made possible through the
exploitation of other nations and people
but the people of these Empires were too
far removed from the process they
enjoyed the fruit of their nation's
dominance without having to know how it
happened and what at what human cost 100
years ago you would have never heard
this in London let's have some tea it's
fair trade no Indians were harmed in the
process no people were like oh spices I
don't know how we got them but yeah same
in same is true today I now live in
America which in its Spare Time invades
people here and
there and because of that we enjoy great
discounts at
Costco but now we are not that remote
because of the technology that is
available in our hands we now have a
first row seat to the killing the abuse
and the exploitation necessary to
provide a life of comfort wealth and
prosperity for the mighty and the
powerful so now we as humans need even
better
justification more effective
distractions and more reasoning
so we don't feel bad about ourselves now
we need a better constructed reality to
make us feel okay with all of this an
alternative reality or in layman terms
propaganda but this despite our progress
and despite our elaborate propaganda our
justifications to kill others remain the
same they are savages terrorists they
are coming for us they have wmds boom
let's invade Iraq or like how Isis
decided that the rest of us are infidels
heathens and that God gave them the
right to kill other men and enslave
their women or when Israelis feeling
that because they were God chosen people
they can kill others that God didn't
choose here is the thing with
propaganda you
cannot refute propaganda with just facts
and Truth propaganda is meant to make
you emotional to make you have a
visceral reaction the lies have to be so
elaborate in order to prevent you from
using common sense they distract you
throw you off balance ignore reality and
make you focus on what they want you to
focus on before I took the stage they
played a video of my interview with P
Morgan talking about the war in Gaza I
was put in a position to defend people
who were vilified while being
slaughtered because the Israeli
propaganda made Millions believe that
these people deserve to die they did it
through lies propaganda twisting facts
and emotional blackmail in these
situations the truth doesn't work facts
don't work you need to destroy
propaganda in a way that is slick and
effective suddenly satire comes in handy
how many people should we kill as many
as we can but Israel is warning
civilians before bombing them very very
cute all I did was regurgitate their
talking points to them to make them see
how stupid they are propaganda is not
just about lies it's about distraction
just take a small sample of the cliches
they use in order to divert the
conversation I'm sure you heard these
one after the other what is a
proportionate response does Israel have
the right to defend itself do you
condemn Hamas does Israel have the right
to exist October 7th decapitated babies
babies babies women were raped babies
were put in the oven they are killing
babies October 7th October 7th why don't
the Arab take in the Palestinians where
is the outrage when Muslims kill other
Muslims why don't you talk about Syria
Libya Sudan Yemen October 7th you are
anti-semitic you are a Jew hater you are
a terrorist sympathizer do you condemn
Hamas October 7th October 7th we will
talk about everything except the killing
that is happening every day as we sit
here discussing talking
points this style of distraction is
inspired by a very old debating trick
called Gish Galloping Gish Galloping is
a way where one side throws distraction
lies and have Truth at you in order to
confuse you distract you away from the
real issues we have seen this on display
every day since the war started his only
started on October 7th we are not
allowed to talk about what came before
you criticize Israel you want cease fire
you HTE the Jews what about the
decapitated babies so now they shut down
the conversation they turn it emotional
visceral but I don't blame them they do
what other countries do they lie they
lie and they lie and they lie and they
lie and when you think they are done
they go like DJ khed another one no I
don't blame them I blame the media the
same media that gave us lectures and
history lessons about transparency
honesty journalistic integrity and
holding people accountable the
decapitated babies the gang rape Stories
the babies in ovens these were lies that
have been refuted by the Israeli media
themselves none of the western media
Outlets retracted retracted any of those
stories with the proper apologies hours
no days days were dedicated to the most
obscene outlandish stories and no one
said sorry guys we messed up the Israeli
media talked extensively about the
Hannibal directive and how a huge
portion of Israeli civilians were killed
by not so friendly fire CNN BBC nothing
they were busy publishing headlines like
15 people were killed in Gaza killed by
who we don't know how are they killed we
don't know they have been doing this
forever one of my favorite Headlines by
the New York Times is from
2014 when Israel fired a missile killing
five people in a coffee shop in Gaza and
the headline came as missile finds
patrons at
Cafe how did it find them we don't know
what would have happened if it never
found them we have no idea or when the
Wall Street Journal just a few weeks ago
in October published this
headlines
blast goes off at Orthodox Church in
Gaza yes there was a miracle blast that
miraculously happened you don't believe
in miracles come on it actually happened
in a church miracles do happen the
Western media that has been lecturing us
about the dangers of using religion and
Holy scripture to justify political
actions and launching Wars those same
people have no problem talking about the
historical claims of the chosen people
and their indisputable right in the
promised land really chosen people
chosen by whom promised promised by whom
God your God my God who God we don't
know it is funny how the West uses
religion as it pleases they ridicule and
criticize brown people religions at will
your religion is violent your religion
is nonsense your religion is ridiculous
Savage primitive you can't take
political decisions just because your
scripture tells you so and yet they open
ly talk about God choosing certain
people to do whatever the hell they want
and I and and this is where I get
confused if they really believe in this
this whole thing about chosen people
then why don't they just all convert to
Judaism if you believe that they are the
chosen people won't you feel left out
won't you feel
unchosen I mean the hypocrisy we are the
West we are secular we are liberal we
don't care about
religion but when it comes to Israel
Suddenly It's biblical by the way the
lies and the false justification that
have been used to kill other people and
wiping out whole communities have been
recycled over and over again 1898 the
Wilmington Massacre 1906 the Atlanta
Massacre 1912 fory country Massacre 1921
the Tulsa Massacre 1922 Perry Florida
1923 Rosewood Florida 1931 the Scots B
boys trial in Alabama these were
massacres against black people in
America and all of them started the same
way a rumor and allegation that some
black people raped or assaulted white
women that gave white Americans an
excuse to kill torture Lynch and even
burn down whole communities displacing
them destroying their homes hospitals
and schools Collective punishment
gendered accusations and displacement
based on false rumors sounds familiar
they even still use the same kind of
accusation whenever people speak against
Injustice when some people try to
support the black community in their
plight for justice and equality they
were called race traitors self-hating
whites self-hating Americans same as we
see today when Jewish people stand up
against Israeli war crimes they are
called self-hating Jews and it doesn't
matter how Jewish you are the co-author
of the universal Declaration of Human
Rights Steven Hessel was a Jew he was a
holocaust Survivor he was part of the
French Resistance against the Nazis when
he stood up for Palestinian rights he
was called an
anti-semite just like that together with
many Jewish people including politicians
comedians actors X IDF soldiers who
rejected Zionist lies and even rabbis
they too were called self-hating Jews
and anti-semites it's the best way to
shut down the
conversation I got a taste of that
myself because my oos against them they
now call me a jewter an anti-semite and
a secret member of the Muslim
Brotherhood but I'm used to that in
Egypt 13 years ago when I hosted my
political satire show and because of my
reviews I was called an Infidel a
traitor a Freemason a secret Jew an
underground mad agent and my absolute
favorite I was called a CIA operative
who has been recruited by John Stewart
to use satire to bring down the
country
I'm running out of countries and I'm
running out of
accusations yes satire is a huge threat
to propaganda because those who
manipulate people and bl blackmail them
through lies and fear they know that
satire is their Kryptonite because when
you laugh at someone you are not afraid
of them anymore when you ridicule their
lies they have no legs to stand on and
when you use common sense lace with a
little bit of humor their talking points
self- implode they don't want you to
call them out cuz if you do you will
ruin whatever they have to be trying to
achieve stripping Palestinians away from
Humanity painting them as terrorists
Savages and monsters so everyone can
feel better killing them they act like a
typical narcissist every time you expose
them when they they're like how dare you
ruin my reputation by telling people
what I actually do Americans did that
with black people Britain did that with
Indians the West did that with Iraq lies
propaganda and dehumanization but to be
fair it is not just white people doing
it to brown people and black people
brown and black people dehumanize others
too at certain point of History we were
cruel and violent against other people
human history is just one big abusive
toxic relationship but it just happens
that now white people rule the planet
and they do that with the very advanced
technology and very scary weapons so the
destruction and the decimation are much
more pronounced and the killing is much
more effective today I don't have to
drive my sword into your body to kill
you I can just sit behind the screen
push a button and blow your whole block
up advanced technology allowed humans to
be more removed and more lethal while
being conveniently away from the
Bloodshed how many times did you hear
them brag about bombing their enemies
back to the stone ages killing them like
animals but there's a problem when you
treat people like animals animals is
what you going to
when someone attacks another one with a
knife it's terrorism but if I fly
comfortably in my $64 million F16
pushing a button to drop a 16,000 a84
multi-purpose bomb on a residential
block killing 200 people that's not
terrorism that is war those are just
collateral damages sad and inevitable
outcome of War we have gotten so
comfortable killing people from afar
from behind screens treating them like
Savages they they behind fortified walls
it's easy and convenient but here's the
problem when that screen is removed when
the Fortified walls get breached you
will find yourself face to face with
what with what you have created you bomb
them to the Middle Ages then middle-age
brutality is what you're going to get
you treat them like Savages they will
attack you like Savages despite all that
I still consider myself very fortunate
living in today's world I of marveled at
our human ability to innovate and create
a better life that is easy convenient
and even at sometimes very entertaining
but I'm also scared of our own ability
to hate discriminate and
self-destruct I hope that we truly
evolve to understand that we are all the
same I wish that we can understand that
no matter how much we think we can be
powerful enough to abuse exploit and
kill other people what we are really
doing is killing our own Humanity I wish
that the leaders we celebrate would be
leaders who help lift All Humans help
all humans be good to All Humans not
just leaders who acquire their Fame and
status from using and abusing a group of
people from the benefit of their own and
speaking of leaders and in closing
there's just one thing left for me to
say Winston Churchill thank you
very
[Applause]
much
we can they just need a minute to change
this up so we get we'll both get mics
for the well you know we can we can talk
like this until they do the not to K
them with Hello can we just do it like
this yeah yeah okay so you've given us a
whole lot to think about uh bassim we
didn't expect uh anything less but I'm
going to start off with what you started
with and how you ended I'm not going to
repeat the words but beep Winston
Churchill is something that uh I dare
say would get a rise out of most Indians
so you've uh warmed yourself to all
Indians by saying that about Winston
church but why uh why did you think that
uh you know talking about Winston
Churchill and the British would get
everyone's blood up well because we it's
a very provocative thing and it's a it's
something that a lot of people relate to
in this country well because we we
basically I I said before Egypt and
India India is like Egypt but multiply
by a thousand we were also occupied by
the British for a very long time and we
understand how what is the meaning of
being looked down and what's the meaning
of actually being discriminated against
being looked down as a lower race
because they think they are better and
they have the right to exploit our
riches and our resources because they
are entitled to do that and while they
are heroes in their own land they they
they do that on the expense of our own
people and our own resources so I
understand how you feel and I kind of
like I felt kind of a a more of a
comraderie with with Indians in this
particular matter uh you know I wanted
to talk about anti-Semitism uh now basam
because that's uh uh that's something
that you're attacked with a lot you're
called a Jew hater you're labeled as
anti-semitic uh you know people are
unwilling to listen to anything you have
to say sometimes because they say no the
place he's coming from is anti-Semitism
and that's one of the themes that you
just touched upon right now when you
when you talked about how all these
things are thrown at you so that the
essence of what you want to say is
diluted or diverted from how do you you
know how do you respond when people call
you a Jew hater or an anti-em well
here's the thing the the accusation of
anti-Semitism is a very dangerous
accusation no one should ever be hated
or discriminated against because of
their ethnicity and religion but the way
that it's been used and overused and
abused it's being used in a way to shut
down conversation everybody's an
anti-semite and it's been so overused
that it doesn't mean anything anymore
you know it's like you know when you
whenever you call everybody islamophobe
islamophobe islamophobe you know people
say okay I'm an islamophobe what you
going to do right I don't believe the
way that when you throw accusations and
people in to to shut down the
conversation they just um um Jonathan
Glazer he was like an Israeli Jewish
director he won an Oscar for his movie
about the Holocaust and what because he
refused to have his Jew Jewish faith to
be used an excuse to kill other people
he was called an anti-semite so if you
overuse a certain accusation it means
nothing it means nothing anymore it's
like you want to call me an antisite
call me I don't care but the thing is
here's the thing even in India even in
America even in Egypt the way that
people use like oh you you hate your
country you hate your religion you're
not Indian enough you're not Egyptian
enough you're not American enough you
self you're a self-hating American
you're self-hating Egyptian self-hating
Indian this is a way in order to create
this viseral emotional blackmail so
people would be scared to speak up so I
think this what happened is good because
we need to speak up because they cannot
use these empty accusations against us
anymore because if they use that this
going to be the first step to shut down
the conversation and do whatever the
hell they want without and while you
being afraid to speak up being called a
self-loathing Indian is very much part
of the conversation here in India as
well so we know what you're talking
about but you know but the thing is that
I'm sure that the people who a lot of
people who been called self-loathing
Indians are people who criticize what's
happening in India out of love the
people who actually criticize things in
their own country on their own religion
it becomes it if I don't care about my
country I will not criticize what's
happening right or if if I'm complicit
in what's happening why would I
criticize and again as you said
self-loathing indiian self-hating Jew
self-hating American it is the same
exact way and strategy in order to shut
down conversation uh you know many of
the things you've spoken about are
extremely evocative and the parallels
you've drawn are themes that resonate
with us as Indians as well you know from
your Egyptian experience and I just
wanted to quickly tell our audience here
because I was approached by many people
uh raise your hands if you have a
specific question for basam you you can
ask him he will answer you we've got
about 25 more minutes so I have a few
questions so until I uh we pass some
mics around if you raise your hand I'll
see you uh okay yeah over there but
before before you I'm going to quickly
ask one question since you talked about
uh
Basim elaborate lies propaganda as you
know subtle elaborate lies it's not loud
it's it's Insidious it's it's subtle you
don't really know it when it's happening
what's the most elaborate lie currently
in your view in my view yeah in your
view well there's a lot of them like uh
I mean the whole thing about the
propaganda that there was like gang
raping of women and decapitated babies
and the Israeli media itself has refuted
these claims Time After Time After Time
After Time and that's why I used the
example from the black history uh
African-American history in America
because they would use that in order to
kill and decimate whole Community I
don't know if you know about that uh
about Tulsa Raaz in Tulsa in Oklahoma
there was a very prominent and very
lavish black community they had a good
businesses they were they were like
grazing up in the in the in the socio
economic ladder and just because of a
lie that some black uh person assaulted
a a white woman in an elevator their
whole District was was burned out in
Atlanta it happened the same and they
even pushed them and displaced them into
a smaller place in the middle of Atlanta
so that's why it is this kind of ways in
order to use a very very elaborate lies
in order to kill people okay uh we've
got a question over there this guy this
guy did it first okay okay there first
and then
you yeah go
ahead promoting me up the order sir so
while I very much enjoy saaya myself
while I thank you for promoting me of
the order while I very much enjoy Satia
myself um Malcolm Gladwell hosted a
podcast
where he said that Satia often misses
the mark because a lot of the audience
takes it literally they don't know
you're joking have you ever faced this
problem and do you have a view on Satia
thank you oh oh absolutely even
especially in the Arab world a lot of
people um mix satire with
disrespect if you joke about something
you're disrespecting me and this comes
from an authoritarian mind because if I
in a in a in a place of authority you
don't have the right to De criticize me
it is kind of like the Father Figure man
I'm your father father how come that you
criticize me and that works in families
but that doesn't work in politics
because in politics you're an elected
politician it doesn't matter how old or
how respectful you're not my father you
are there to make to do a job for me I
mean this is this is the idea of a
public servant so when you criticize
using satire it is a way of freedom of
expression but people in order they shut
down the conversation they call you
disrespectful they call they even use
religion in order to discredit you so of
course I it doesn't satire doesn't miss
the mark people who criticize it they
miss the mark do they say why are you
making fun of a serious issue oh yeah
all the time yeah yeah right um basam
yeah um humor me a little um you haven't
spoken about your Terror past your
connection with terrorists back home why
tell us all also you criticize the west
but when you were to flee Egypt you
landed in the great us of absolutely
absolutely well here's the thing I
criticize a country that I wanted to be
better I tried that with my country and
I failed now I'm in a new country that's
why I don't want to be running out of
countries well here the thing this this
is like a very I I actually I like that
you asked this because this is exactly
what a white person would tell me it's
like if you criticizing the West why are
you staying there this is exactly what
they say right but the thing is we go to
the don't insult me by calling me white
no of course not I said like one but
like um but here's the thing the way
that we go to the West because they are
they marketed their countries very well
come to us we have freedom of expression
we come and we speak up it's like no no
no no go back to where you came from
it's like come on come on that doesn't
work if you promise people to come there
for freedom of expression and equality
we go there and we take this promise and
again when we criticize the West we
don't criticize the West out of hate we
want it to be out of love so they will
be better for themselves and for the
rest of humanity the same way that I
criticize my own country I don't do it
out of hate I I don't do it out of spite
I do it out of love in order to be
better thank you speaking of uh thank
you Gita for that uh the land of and and
and and also like I want to escape like
I I wanted to play the white man game
they always win so I want to be on The
Winning
Side speaking of the land of the free
and Home of the Brave Basim uh you've
got a you've got an interesting name for
the current president of the United
States genocide Joe no no no no no
genocide before me I added geriatric to
the he a geriatric genocide Biden yeah
so we've got a you've got an election
coming up where uh where uh you've
decided to be much more against the
current president than the guy who's up
against him how's that working out for
you well one would have imagined when it
comes to Trump no no I I it doesn't when
I am against Biden it doesn't mean that
I'm with Trump but it just like it is
sad that like a democracy like America
can only produce two people that should
be in a nursing home you know it's just
like I I I think we should like this
this is very sad this is extremely sad
you know I mean they I mean I have a
joke that I say in my my stand-up comedy
you know I make a joke about Trump so
the Trump supporters kind of get angry I
like guys it's not that it's just like
it is so refreshing you know when Trump
was present he was in your face the
whole time he was all in the news but we
now it's so refreshing to find that to
wake up in the morning and and and you
know forget you have a president and
then I said like even Joe Biden he wakes
up in the morning and he forgets his
president so so that that that is that
is the thing I mean the whole idea of
look look at it from a business point of
view how many how many oil companies you
had in the past and how many oil
companies you have now how many uh
weapons country uh armed companies we
had in the past now they're all they
used to have like about
53 uh companies now they are
Consolidated in five this kind of
Monopoly consolidating power in a very
few hands like consolidating power in
only two parties these are not the two
best candidates in America these are the
best these are the candidates that are
promoted by those two parties
consolidating power in the hand of very
few is very dangerous it's dangerous to
economy it's like Monopoly and it's
dangerous for politics and danger for
freedom of expression so this is when
when you when you say that you do not
accept what is happening it doesn't mean
that you support trump it means that you
are against the discourse that
this that the Democratic process has
taken and I think that United States
deserve much better than this well this
isn't going to happen Bim but if you
were moderating the presidential debate
between Biden and Trump this year what
would you say to both by way of
introduction what would you say to both
you can say you can spend 30 seconds
saying something to both Biden and Trump
what would you say to them
uh please welcome a mad man and a
genocide man he's like this is this is
like the this is the problem with the
choices that we have like I was just
like please please I like please welcome
the only two choices that we have that
we shouldn't be ending with that is
basically that we should presentent them
with okay yeah go ahead yeah hi B uh my
question is like you know it's uh when
you when anyone does comic and satire it
is pretty much a creative work so my
question is uh like when you do so for
the darker side of life for a war or for
for so many negative things happening
around the world how do you prepare
yourself I mean what's your creative
process behind it before you do a satire
show what is the creative process of
writing uh comedy for satire and comedy
of the darker subjects yeah I go into a
period of
depression and then I I end up with some
suicidal thoughts and this process of
self cleansing and the need to to
exterminate yourself accompanied by me
being in my and coming to become 50 and
in my midlife crisis so that all creates
a great environment for dark
satire thank you thank you so much thank
you you I I want to return to that uh uh
you know video I we've got a still image
from the pi Morgan uh uh conversation
that you had that uh went so incredibly
viral what happened immediately after
that bus I you know because you have you
went and did another longer piece with
with peers that was in LA uh but in the
immediate aftermath of that of that you
know incredible incredible piece with uh
with Pierce for the first time uh what
happened immediately after that what
changed for you oh my life changed
forever apart apart from your enormously
bigger fan base and audience what
changed for you well there is of course
there are some positive changes because
suddenly uh a lot of Arabs came to me
and they're Arabs in politics and they
said that it's kind of like open the
door for them to speak because a lot of
people are afraid to speak up so but
what happened to me is that I lost a
couple of jobs in Hollywood and I I
actually gained a lot of of of work too
and it seems that it was the best
representation of how you could be
dropped by The Establishment by chosen
by the people because in life life
comedy and life audience you don't have
to go through a middleman you don't have
to go through a studio you people come
and they pay the ticket to see you so
it's more of like a vote of people more
than just like you having to go by the
what the establishment says got a
question from there uh thank you for the
honesty we have very similar views about
Mr Churchill um I feel the conversation
going to get that a lot believe me thank
you I'm I'm I'm I'm very happy that I
that I I touch a nerve thank you I I
feel the conversation may be a bit
incomplete till we don't hear a few
minutes about your views about Mr Putin
like just I feel that that also may be
included in the conversation what Putin
what do you feel about Mr Putin what the
Russian guy Putin Putin oh Putin yeah
but how do I feel about Putin what do
you feel about Putin what do you think
about Putin I I think there's an
authoritarian dictator same it's not
it's it's like here's the thing when you
criticize a certain side it doesn't mean
that you like the other side I mean the
fact that like these are the choices
that are giving on both sides doesn't
make it right but I don't I I think like
Putin is dictator um and I but I think
and I think America in itself is going
to in its own way of becoming what we
call um not a it's more of an oligarchy
because the problem with here's the
thing you can talk about Putin and
Russia but like it's he does what he's
expected to do to be an authoritarian to
be a brutal dictator but America that
markets itself as a democracy has been
now turning very very slowly to an
oligarchy because all of the politicians
are being bought by special interest
groups whether by it's like certain
lobbies or certain gun or uh gun groups
or certain U groups that follows the
military industry complex or the
pharmaceutical company so you end up
voting for people you have the illusion
of freedom of expression and you vote
for someone and that someone doesn't
represent your your interest he
represents whoever pays him in order to
carry his campaign so like about Putin I
mean there's nothing really to be said
about like he's a classic classical
brutal dictator but you know I'm more
concerned about the people who call
themselves the leaders of the Free World
who Market themselves at the at the
Beacon of democracy you need to step up
for what you are you are talking
about Western hypocrisy uh is is another
theme that resonates with us here in
India uh especially the Western press
you know you took the names of certain
newspapers and Publications and those
very frequently become trigger points uh
here uh in India as
well you you know you often say Basim
imagine if Israel was Russia would the
Press be looking at it the same way can
you expand on that a little bit what
happens when you say that because you
see you've given us examples of how the
Western press reports on Israel you took
those very uh you know resonant examples
of the headlines they gave for that bomb
that went off in a church in Gaza uh and
you constantly say what if Israel was
actually Russia the Contex of what's
happening in UK or Ukraine Ukraine but
the thing is when you say that they tell
you how how dare you compare them you
know they don't even want to even start
the comparison it's like oh that's
that's different it's and and and this
is this is where the hypocrisy is very
apparent because they do not they always
talk about Israel right to exist what
about Palestinians right to exist they
talk about their right to defend them
themselves what about Palestinian right
to defend itself and it doesn't mean
that when I talk about that that I
support Hamas but this is how they want
to to kind of conclude the conversation
they want to put you in that corner
right you you can talk and criticize
Hamas as much as you want but Hamas is a
product for what happened by Israel for
years and years and years and years so
you cannot really separate them both got
a question back there yeah the the lady
in the glasses back there they're I'm
coming to
you first of all thank you so much for
um sharing with all of us that there was
no romantic golden age in the past we
come from great stocks of looking
for equally crappier future but in times
like this when it is so dark um what
gives you hope that is if you still
hopeful what gives you hope is the new
generation I mean I think it was very
apparent in the past few months how the
newer generation who were not been
following the Legacy Media that they
formed their own media their own
research I myself have learned so much
from younger people doing research and
deun debunking lies and propaganda that
have for years and years and years and
years the younger people the young Basha
yes thank you the younger people who who
have now like taken over Tik Tok and
taken over the social media explaining
things to us that this Legacy Media
didn't do for us so maybe my hope is
that that new generation who have their
own way of of of of acquiring
information that having his their own
way of of uh uh of knowing the truth and
that is like the thing that gave me hope
maybe the New Generation that we
criticize and we make fun of because
they're on Tik Tok the whole time maybe
there's something that we don't see that
they will come and surprise us is that
an opportunity basam I want to explore
that for a moment uh before I come to
you is that an opportunity with this new
generation rejecting Legacy Media you
know forming their own opinions doing
their own research uh you know but the
but the the cycle of violence the circle
of War continues why isn't that an
opportunity for things to actually
change because they don't have the power
but power is still in the hand of the
Old Guard because the geriatrics are
dying they have to die because no
they're D no they don't have to die we
need to put them in a nursing home but
it's not that it's just like I think it
is it we have a great opportunity in the
future for those younger people
hopefully when they come to the position
of power they can actually make change
and maybe it is what what we have seen
in the past few months that was as
brutal as it was it gives us hope in a
new generation that we never thought
that would perform that
well yeah
hi um my name viaga uh I think you and I
think everyone might believe that
whatever we think and we talk much that
will happen or maybe manifest right uh
we we are the normal people human beings
right we don't like Wars we don't like
any negative things right I know this is
not your good for your business you
guys' business maybe but I think if you
want to remove these kind of negative
things of War right we have to stop the
I believe
the only way to stop something is to
start uh stop talking about those topics
right if you keep on topping something a
negative or anything of war and not
about you I'm just talking very general
right uh that is I think that is the
only way to stop the negative thing
right otherwise we manifest more and
more all right let's follow your advice
and let's talk about everything bad
happens in the world and see let's give
it a
week I mean I think this is a very nice
and spiritual way to speak about things
but I think that doesn't work because
the only way things change is actually
you talk about them I understand that
talking about them are noisy and
disturbing you know as they say
democracy is very noisy democracy is
very uh it's a very noisy place because
you have to listen to you have
to listen to horrible things but that is
how things change you talk about things
you don't hide in the hide your head in
the sand and not talk about it hoping
for it to go away that that's my simple
reaction speaking about war G just
before I come to you I have a quick
question and I must ask this since since
the gentleman here talked about you know
how to stop War uh I must ask you
because this is something you probably
are asked Bas which is as far as Israel
and Palestine are concerned it's been
going on for so long cycles of violence
keep coming
up how does it end what needs to happen
for it to end you're asking me I'm
asking you this is a 75 years conflict
that Scholars and politicians and
Nations fail to stop that that's
probably why maybe it needs a
comic it it comes down to
justice justice fair to be fair and to
give people what they deserve you cannot
expect to come and replace a whole
population take their land and then
expect them to go and die silent and
disappear into the night I mean it
happened before it happened with a
Native Americans it happened with the
aboriginals in Australia but 50 million
native amans were killed 20 million
Aboriginal killed in Australia but the
thing is we don't live in 1400s anymore
we live now we see that what happens day
to day and you cannot just like
annihilate a whole people or expect to
displace 7 million people outside of a
certain land and they expected to go
away like if we really believe in our
ability to be humans and to change
things we cannot allow the mistakes of
the past to keep repeating because it
just happened
before G almost out of time so yeah
thank you shf for a second chance I
can with you here's the white woman
again the white woman again uh basam yes
you have turned a very dark age or or
stage in in our history uh into u a lot
of people to ponder upon but also
brought it to the four through your
humor but it's about content generation
where are you getting this content from
what is just give us one glimp of your
conversation with your loser cousin back
home or back in Gaza uh your
brother-in-law in Gaza uh what's a
conversation that you have and uh how do
you pick up content from that what
conversation do I have with the with
with your loser cousin or your loser
brother-in-law by the way my loser
brother-in-law is not actually a loser
he's a doctor and I will tell you
something come on don't break my heart
don't I don't need those no no wait wait
wait and Basim is a surgeon by the way
for those who don't know I used to be a
heart surgeon yes I I used to be I used
to be a doctor so that makes me
practically an Indian
so I know like you know I know guys you
know like I go I tell everybody you know
we have one of India's top doctors
sitting right there Dr Nish IO her like
okay guys if anybody have a
headache I I I tell people I tell people
in my
show you know like I the only reason I
became a doctor
is because in the Middle East you're
expected to be one of three things a
doctor an engineer or a disappointment
so I've been living my life as a
disappointment now for 13
years so uh so back to my loser cousin
here's the thing about my loser cousin
uh I made that joke about him in the PE
Morgan show I told him my loser cousin
he he's not even good enough to be a
human shield you know and um and I told
my wife if to can can you please like
you know send him a message that like
I'm sorry I made fun of him but like and
you know what happened she sent him a
message 3 days later he responded he
said like show what show TV what TV we
don't have Internet and then he said oh
bass him oh we love him let him say
whatever they want this is how they act
this is how they act even in the middle
of the war and the thing is uh all of
the the their family the cousins and the
uncles there will all spread around Gaza
and now they are being pushed to RAF and
they all all of them lost their homes
they are talking about like 18 people 18
families and they live now in one
apartment and that apartment is in a
building that could be bombed right now
as we speak and all because these
freaking lies that they were repeating
in order to justify the killing of
millions of people while the the West is
sitting there wasting our time in
 discussions what's a
proportionate response seriously are you
 seriously asking this question
what's the proportion this this question
has should have been stopped by the
second day of the war because what is
happening there is an continuous
onslaught of killing innocent people
using shits and the Western
media is complicit because they are
wasting time by distracting you with
useless questions right and this is the
way this is this is the way that the
their discussion ends to Nowhere they
just want to give you the illusion of
the freedom of discussion where they
only waste your time where they letting
them do whatever they
want we're almost out of time uh there's
a question question that uh and I'm not
saying this because I I work for the
India Today group but basam you'll be
happy to know that uh when uh when the
IND today group sent me and some of my
colleagues uh to Israel last year to
cover what happened after October the
7th we were the first Network that not
only reported from Israel but also went
into the Palestinian territories and
told both sides of the story so we
brought both sides of the story uh to
this entire thing so uh I just wanted to
place that on the record because it's
important as far as the media is
concerned War report is a difficult job
and the India Today group has definitely
shown the way as that as far as that is
concerned no no here's the thing because
you guys know what it means to be
dehumanized you guys know what it means
to be ruled by Ruthless People who
dehumanize you and look down upon you
that is why in America the people who
support the Palestinian rights are
African-Americans because they have been
through that they have been through that
pain and they know and we know and you
know when they do that with all of their
like very elegant suits and very nice
looks and makeup they do that behind a
facade that is actually full of lies so
we understand it's we expect nothing
less than you and also I want to thank
the amazing stuff of India today I want
they were amazing and I have to
apologize to them because behind their
back I sneaked out from my room today at
3:00 in the morning and I went to T
Mahal and I came back right and they
were like please don't go please don't
go but like you there's a lot of traffic
so I went at 3:00 in the morning with
Mahal and I came here in time and and I
said like how like we need to lock you
in the room it's like I escaped from
Egypt do you think that a palace can
contain
me so I apologize if I I gave you guys
some minimum heart attack you have a
doctor here who can take care of you I
forgot everything about medicine call
911 but otherwise I'm extremely
extremely proud and happy and honored to
be a guest in this amazing amazing event
and you guys have made my time and you
basically gave me the my best birthday
ever in years so thank you very much
and and while wishing you a very happy
birthday in advance Basim I just want to
tell everyone here that uh some people
may want to label you as the John
Stewart of the Arab world but I think
all of us here are going to remember you
as Basim Yousef of America thank you
very
much thank you
so Basim can I just request you to stay
on stage for a moment please can we have
Dr pradipta Basu head of marketing of
radical ketan hand over a token of our
appreciation please to
[Music]
[Applause]
b a big round of applause please for
basam
Yousef for so patiently taking all of
our questions and taking the time out to
join us here at the India today
conclave
[Music]
thank you very much
basam as we set up for our next session
just a quick reminder ladies and
gentlemen that in uh the mumtaz hall
there's a concurrence session that's
going to kick off those interested can
please also go there and enjoy that
session we're having Emily from Missour
from barel vangi joining us there voice
of the people from Airwaves 2 assembly
promises to be an engaging session so
you can join us at mumtaz Hall for the
concurrent
[Music]
session
[Music]
[Music]
oh
all right ladies and gentlemen our next
session is being god with AI one command
of inspiration imagination and
Innovation can I invite on stage our
session moderator aush eladi technology
editor and presenter of business today
television to introduce our next set of
[Music]
[Applause]
panelists
[Music]
hello ladies and
gentlemen now we thought there's so much
talk of artificial intelligence over the
past couple of years the seminal iPhone
moment for AI the reason has become so
common and ubiquitous happens to be chat
GPT that's the whole world of generative
AI but there's so much happening and
there's so many questions I can see a
bunch of question marks in the audience
is it a boon is it a bane will it take
away my job will it augment my job well
these are answers we are seeking today
with two very special guests and I'll
walk and talk you through what the
format of this conversation will be like
we believe A Little Less Conversation a
little more action so my guests for the
evening are vak venu gopalan director
solution Consulting Adobe
India a huge round of applause
please and samic Roy executive director
Indian in South Asia Microsoft India
samic Bak what a pleasure to have you
with us here at the India today conclave
so we want to start off with giving you
guys a visual representation of what
artificial intelligence is all about
these guys are working on some of the
most Cutting Edge Products in the tech
world and I can vouch for that but we
want to show you maybe vak why don't you
join us on stage right over here and
very quickly tell everyone or show
everyone what AI can potenti do a huge
round of applause for vak venugopal
thank you thank you a such a pleasure to
be here and I thought with a 5 minute
introduction to show you probably 15
slides only to actually change my mind
and show you the real stuff what is
generative AI all about how does it look
like at Adobe we have been working for
more than 10 years on AI and generative
Ai and let's see the magic of AI which
is your imagination's new best friend if
I can get
my feed in here yeah there you go let me
go Ahad and start with a prompt which
is let's say as you can see a very busy
evening can you see that at the bottom
this is Adobe Firefly and I'm going to
go ahead and say that let's get started
generate an image based on this prompt
in order to make it pop I have added
stuff like bubbles and rainbows and the
following right so if I can get that
over here yeah there you
go let's see what the AI is going to
imagine about this particular prompt I
can always change the size of this
particular images as you can see I have
just changed it to 16 by9 there you go
there is Rainbow there is Bubbles but I
want a 16 by9 so it's working on that
and and in if the internet gods are with
us today it should pop
up there you go wow Bak this is all live
image generation I could I could type
something else and it would still work
absolutely it's not just live image
generation but all of this it's taking a
little bit of time to get the fourth one
out I hope it comes out but all of the
images are commercially safe for you to
use
we'll talk about that in a
second what we are doing here is we are
asking the generative AI to imagine
about this prompt of India Gate Bubbles
and rainbows and flowers that's actually
in there it doesn't stop there I can now
take this particular image modify let's
say only certain sections amplify
certain colors certain objects let's say
add more people I can do that right over
here if I can move back to my slides
there you
go I have a pop qu for everyone in here
there are four images and these are
generated using the prompt
beautiful sunset at the
beach there are four Images pop quiz
which one do you think is an
original okay quick show of hands image
number one is that original or AI
generated one so is is one AI generated
okay there's one hand what about image 2
is that AI
generated m a lot of uh smartphone
camera enthusiasts here what about image
3 is that AI generated yes yes and the
last one image four any any show of
hands all
right H my apologies I didn't want to
pull a fast one on you the fact is all
four of them are generated by J the
point I want to make here is that it's
indis distinguishable from the work that
you would literally take a camera and
shot a picture versus what is generated
by generative AI is that good is that
bad it's a little bit of both it is good
because it amplifies the creative
production Cycles if you are generating
five images today probably you can
generate 50 with the same time because
that is what is needed in the creative
economy the India as a creative economy
we need to produce faster more efficient
creative content and that's what we at
adobi strive to actually achieve supera
thank you so much thank you so much why
don't you join me here and samic over to
you are you going to level up on what
vak just did right
now thank
you good afternoon if you can just
slightly switch to my
slide
first this image was generated by
co-pilot in less than 15 seconds so let
me start by asking all of you a question
how many of you raise of hands have used
chat
GPT W beautiful corre how many of you
have heard of
co-pilot ah lovely I have some work to
do okay now the very fact that most of
your hands were up for the first
question talks about the fact that the
error of AI is here if you all heard the
leaders of the world economic Forum at
DeVos they clearly said that the planet
is entering the Next Generation and this
is the generation being led by AI it's
going to impact every individual it's
going to impact teams it's going to
impact organizations if used in the
right manner positively and all of that
will actually help to build the economy
of the
country when we talk of AI there are
three aspects which we need to keep in
mind One is using the AI as it is out of
the box within the products so when I
ask the question how many of you have
heard of co-pilots or use co-pilots I
saw 50 40% of the hands going up that's
co-pilots that's using the product as it
is AI Leed a digital assistant within
the product and I will demonstrate that
to you the other one is to use the
technology and the platform and the
models to build AI in the way it will
help you work in an organization it can
be on any aspects you know tell me what
the forecast should be tell me based on
this how much should the production be
tell me how much of ordering should I I
need to do okay tell me whether I should
approve or disapprove this particular
claim tell me whether this is a
fraudulent uh loan or not and while
doing all of this the third very
important aspect is ethical AI or
responsible AI but let me just very
quickly try and demonstrate what all AI
can do for you now this is a very simple
aspect you can today ask AI to help you
fix a bulp because AI can see it can
read it can hear and it can talk back to
you so this is a capturing of a live
demo I just took the picture and put it
there and said help me fix this the
first thing it did is it put a caption
and says I have ID identified this as a
white Globe lamp out there cor and the
moment I put this particular question
and I say I need to change the bulb can
you help me do it chip very quickly
identifies who I am and then gives me a
list of instructions by one one by one
and it's very interesting it takes care
because it also says if the lamp was on
while you ask me this question so please
take time to cool down the lamp and then
you as you go through it it basically
says that you got to take the lamp up
unscrew the lamp and then when I ask the
question it tells me to give an image of
how it looks like and the moment I give
that image of how it looks like it
identifies what's the kind of bulb which
can go inside it and gives me that and
when I say these are the two bulbs which
I have now tell me how do I fix the bulb
and which bulb to choose it then try and
understands and relates that particular
bulb to that particular socket and says
use the right hand bulb because that's
the one which will fix it right so
simple it could interact with me in the
language which I wanted to interact with
and do it let me quickly change things
co-pilot a few of you put your hands up
co-pilot is an AI digital assistant
which is there in every solution of
Microsoft whether you use Windows
whether you use the browser Edge whether
you use Bing whether you use Office 365
which is is a productivity Suite or a
collaborative Suite so let's just me
give you a very very simple example of
how it helps in day-to-day work okay so
I write an email in the morning to a
couple of my team members okay and this
email talks about a particular aspects
which I want to discuss with them I go
and try doing my work and when I come
back after a couple of hours I see a lot
of people have replied on that email
sounds familiar corre all of you have
seen it and then you see nested emails
you see 17 18 emails what I do is I just
go to co-pilot and say summarize it for
me and draft a response and then I can
say the response needs to be formal and
it needs to be short okay and just look
at what co-pilot does it basically
creates the entire response I can either
edit it further or just keep it and send
it so I decide the response looks good I
send it and the email goes out to
everybody and you can see how there an
email is out there correct just think of
it instead of going through 17 emails it
just saves me time it's just one example
just one simple example on how co-pilot
could help you with that why don't I ask
you the question do you use copilot I do
use copilot why don't you please have a
seat a use Round of Applause for these
two demos we're going to geek out a
little bit right now now you guys
answered whether you use Chad GPT or
Google b or Gemini but when you use
these generative AI tools how many of
you guys trust the results blindly show
of hands put your hands
up that's what we're going to get to to
really figure out how these models can
be trained on perhaps more Superior data
sets with more safeguards checks and
balances but let's let's really simplify
it Bak you actually did a live image
generation if I had typed show me the
India today conclave taking place in
kittila in Finland it could have
possibly generated something like that
as well right here yes absolutely but
now tell me isn't that a concern because
open AI is a company that came up with
Chad GPT Dolly a big Microsoft
connection there as well and now they've
come up with Sora Sora is going to be in
simple words live video generation one
minute videos putting a lot of us behind
the camera an out here well at least in
in in a little bit of under a little bit
of pressure because that's what Sora can
do the open AIC CTO comes out in an
interview yesterday day before and says
we're not quite sure where those images
and videos are coming from that's a
matter of concern I mean are you just
picking it off my Instagram profile my
YouTube videos where are you getting
that all that data from vak where is
Adobe getting the data yeah thank you
aish uh we firmly believe that it's
absolutely important to see through what
you're feeding the
AI what we do is we put immense amount
of effort due diligence Ethics Committee
to make sure that what goes in to our
Firefly image model is safe for use and
all these assets that we have trained
our AI on we have the license for them
mhm it makes sure that whatever comes
out of our image generation models are
safe to use we haven't fed any celebrity
into it so you will never see any
celebrity out of it we haven't fed
anything not safe for work in it to it
so you will never see anything out of
that so it's important to understand the
AI that you use where have they sourced
their data from and is it commercially
safe for all of us to use something
Microsoft's been right up there in the
AI race and you guys have been doing a
lot of work here in India as well
explain to us what we just discussed
ethical AI responsible AI are these just
terms that we should be talking about or
is there real work that's happening is
there practice to back this theory Sure
so I I think you use two very very
important terms and if you go back to
the presentation I talked about three
imperatives of AI using AI as it is out
of the box product like co-pilot
building AI Frameworks you using the
model and across all of them is
responsible or ethical AI now this is a
constantly evolving thing as people
learn as well and it will change but as
of now we believe that there are six
principles which are very important in
ethical AI That's accountability
transparency in inclusion fairness
scalability and privacy and security and
there's a lot of work which is happening
there are white papers which are written
out there there are governments which
are looking at rules and regulations
yesterday actually the first regulation
was passed in Europe according and I
mean even if you look at the dpdp bill
these are all aspects which are going
towards the right rules and regulations
and creating the Frameworks for
technology to be used in the right
purpose now the very important aspect
out here is is to ensure that you train
the model on the right set of data M and
that's where accountability and
responsibility are but how do you train
the model on the right set of data this
is publicly available data you know a
lot of the responses that come on Chad
GPT and I'm sure people will vouch for
that sound like data sets of course
which are trained on maybe 2022 23
whatever the the limitation is but
really Superior versions of Google
search or Bing search yeah so so it's
it's how you put the guard rails when
you implement the AI within your
organization so let's say I have created
an AI enabled interface for any consumer
to come and interact with me and when I
do that I got to tell the model that you
got to only answer questions which are
within the Reliance of the data that I'm
feeding you and this is the data of the
organization so this does not go and
breach any any protection any privacy of
anybody else correct so when you ask the
question and you can go and try it you
ask a particular set of questions it
will only give you answers of that
particular organization ation the moment
you ask so can you please tell me what
is the cost of this product of that
particular company it says it will give
you an answer to say sorry that is not
what I can do so that's where
responsible and ethics really come in
it's interesting because while we are
talking about generative AI it's not
like these big tech companies haven't
faltered right we saw what happened with
Google over the past couple of weeks so
many biases so much Prejudice and
largely a lot of these tech companies
are training these AI models which might
be the future of human civilization on
Western you know values and data sets
and this has been an issue right even
when you take a photo on on a top
smartphone the way it cor you know
corrects color for a person of color as
opposed to a person in the west is a big
contentious issue in the tech
World absolutely so yes there are
challenges which we cannot oversee right
first one you mentioned which is harmful
bias it's a real challenge right right
and second one obviously is defects as
well you had a mentioned about an
example of that so harmful bias um I can
give you an example at Adobe you might
think yes we are a technology company of
course our strength is to actually
create intellectual property rights for
technology for generative AI a large
part of our Workforce who are actually
involved in generative AI you think they
are Engineers yes there are lots of
Engineers but more than that it's the
people who actually make sure that there
is due diligence done done to make sure
the biases are actually not influenced
in every single step M it's a lot of
effort but our values make sure that we
follow that particular Suite if you
notice that we were not the first one to
get into market with the gener AI model
but it's important to make sure that the
harmful biases is not perpetuating
whatever is being said there in the data
set that's being followed in talking
about deep fakes yes uh it can sway
decision and there are there are real
threats out there for sure so I mean we
are in an election year absolutely
absolutely so it's important to actually
acknowledge that there will be always
Bad
actors so our approach towards that is
how do we Empower good actors with tools
and techniques so that before the
content is consumed they know how this
content was produced is it trustworthy
how what is the life cycle of this
particular content a video an image or
whatever that is and whether the AI has
been used whether human has altered
images and whatnot so basically I'm sure
you will get this you get a nutrition
label on the content before you consume
it so that you know where this is
sourced and what all content is actually
in there so that's the way we look
forward to actually fight deep fakes out
there okay macronutrients in the digital
world carbs calories fats all of that
but it's very interesting because the
conversation and sometimes you know all
of us Tech folk in the media are blame
for it saying this is fearmongering you
know we're talking about AI being a
fear-based discourse as opposed to a
hope based discourse right so I want to
pose this question to you samic do you
think it is more of a fear-based
discourse now but the kind of work you
guys are doing with the guardrails you
guys promise it should be more of a hope
based discourse in light of the
classical argument will AI especially
with what open AI doing with Sora and
Google's doing with some of their
platforms will it take away my job and
all of us and I'm asking this
collectively for the entire audience and
everyone watching at home as well yeah I
I think your question is very valid and
I'm sure it's it's on the minds of the
entire audience uh but let me take a
step back you know this is an
interesting discussion which comes out
every single time there is an invention
out there uh you know when steam engine
was invented people said oh my God
Locomotion will take away so jobs after
that at the electricity got invented the
Second Industrial Revolution and people
said oh all the manual processes are
going to be uh uh now now automated and
jobs will go away then came computers
the Internet and people said oh now
computers will take away all the jobs uh
uh you know when e-commerce came people
said the brick and motor stores will
close when otd came people said nobody
will go to Halls anymore and the film
industry is doomed but let's just step
back when computers came in today is the
womb India is the womb of the IT
industry of the world it became a
vertical and an industry and has a
Ministry and has a significant
contribution to the GDP of the country
it didn't take jobs away so it's a
similar discussion right now and and and
look the fear is is valid but this is
about the elasticity of the job market
what I would say is it needs Skilling
okay and reskilling now the good part of
AI is that it reduced uses the learning
curve a lot so people can learn faster
you know a difference between the
previous era and this era is in the
previous era we used computers and
automation to bring information at your
fingertips that's what people try to do
they try to digitize places they try to
digitize people they try to digitize
data in this era it is about expertise
at your fingertips so even a common
person by using a lot of these AI
generated models can produce better
results so Skilling will be very very
important and redeployment that's what I
would say yeah just just want to add to
that so absolutely so we also believe
the same which is AI and the powerful
child of AI which is generative AI will
lower the floor so that more people can
actually enter it will democratize
creativity right to a large extent at
the same time it will also Elevate the
ceiling so that we are all will be
driven with the help of enablement and
and you know education as shach
mentioned the professionals will be
elevated to actually uplevel the quality
of work and that is what has happened in
any other transformational wave of
technology which has come to us it has
always Amplified and progressed the
human race in longer terms so that's
interesting so by that yard stick are
you telling me The Writers Guild on
strike in Hollywood or all the the
protesters outside Tech conferences in
Europe whenever we visit
don't have Justified fears is is that
what you're saying because what you're
trying to tell me is if you embrace it
you're good and then a follow-up
question of that would be if you're
embracing this AI Revolution all of us
then does that mean the ones that don't
would really be left behind in the next
5 years or 10 years what does that mean
for all of us who perhaps don't want it
and want to live under a rock because
that might be the one way to stay
disconnected yeah so the only reference
we have is is the history what has
happened with other transformational way
of Technology right there I mean that's
it's absolutely fine to have fears about
it it's absolutely okay to be little shy
from you know putting that into practice
and stuff like that but you we all have
to dip our toes in so that it benefit us
as individuals as organization in the
long term we firmly believe in that and
I'm not uh you know in any way actually
you know uh I don't want to actually
downplay the protest or the questions
are coming up but it's important to dip
your toes in right now and understand
how this can be applied to your own life
to actually make it progress uh you know
progress your businesses as as your
individual careers and so on and so
forth it's important to understand it
and embrace it so that it enables you to
fast forward into your future we can't
have a conversation on AI without
educating and entertaining everyone as
well so make the last ones to you this
is a really important theme artificial
general intelligence you will hear this
over the next few months and years AGI
now this is something I personally think
if it's in the wrong hands and some will
explain what it is could be well
something that would be a double whammy
for us right we could have major issues
this could be something which could
destroy everything as we know it if you
could explain to us very quickly what is
artificial general intelligence and why
should we be worried if Sam Alman or
Elon Musk says that they have achieved
artificial general intelligence so so I
mean everybody is talking about
different timelines and the timelines
are not known you know it can be a
couple of years it can be 5 years it can
be 10 years but basically the
fundamental of this is that we will
create intelligence which far
supersedes human intelligence so the AI
becomes smarter than all of us in this
then smarter than all of us but I will
just step back and say see these are all
tools and Technologies for human beings
to use how you use a particular thing
depends on us at the end of the day they
are not going to overtake us right uh
and that's where it comes back to
ethical AI it comes back to responsible
Ai and as I said these are evolving
things as you discover new things
there'll be new guardrails there'll be
new rules there'll be new regulations
that will come in okay uh I mean just
look at chat GPT it took three months 3
months to reach a 100 million users
worldwide 3 months just to give you a
perspective internet took 7 years and
mobile phone
which is the the most touched device by
by each one of us took 16 years correct
the chbd so it's just telling you how
fast people are using it because they
see a value in it and they able to do
things faster so all of it will come
back to the use of AI ethically
responsibly under the Right Guard drills
and then things are fine I think my
colleague said a very nice thing adopt
it adopt it ethically and see the
benefits okay so one very quick thing
before we wrap up one word answers if
the AI Revolution and that wave is
coming our way to disrupt everyone's
life sitting in this room and you as AI
experts what is that one word that you
really think will make sure that this is
a safe and an inclusive Revolution one
word from your end I would confidently
say embrace it embrace it samic embrace
it with responsible AI Guardians embrace
it to enhance and I'm I'm guessing you
guys are much wiser in terms of AI as
well we'll all be taking questions even
later thank you so much for being a
lovely audience and thank you for being
a Stella panel here at the India today
Con thank you so
much can I request you gentlemen to
please be on stage uh can I have Mr
shantar chro of Hindustan power to
please come up and hand over a token of
appreciation to Mr vaka and Mr
[Music]
Su please put your hands together ladies
and gentlemen for Mr vak goalen and
samic Roy for joining us here at the
India conclave for their extremely
insightful
[Music]
discussion thank you very much
[Music]
[Music]
much
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
our next session is false alarm why the
West gets India's democracy wrong this
promises to to be an extremely
interesting session I'd like to call
upon the stage the moderator gorov
Savant managing editor strategic Affairs
and defense India Today TV on stage to
introduce our speakers for the next
[Music]
session ladies and gentlemen good
afternoon there is a report of varieties
of democracy
this report has come out recently and
this report argues that there is a
backslide in India's democracy it argues
this is the 2024 report this comes at a
time when India is actually preparing
for the 2024 elections things are just
getting more exciting when it comes to
this
election India's critics are arguing at
this point of time that there is one
deterioration when it comes to freedom
of expression there's a Crackdown on
media there's a Crackdown on social
media the argument is that Civil Society
in India is under attack and that
stringent sections of law are being
applied to silen critics of the
government is West getting India's
democracy wrong that's the question that
I put to a guest this afternoon tripur
Daman Singh is a scholar historian and
author and may I request you to kindly
join us on stage
sir
before he and I talk may I also invite
on
stage Asha modani J G you're a scholar
at the Stanford you're a philanthropist
um I want you to share your thoughts may
I request you to join us on stage and
share your thoughts is there a decline
in India's
democracy
[Music]
G thank you for having me here I want to
bring to your attention something here's
my answer to what you just asked is is
the Indian democracy in a state of uh
dilution decline
weakness right U I'm going to I'm going
to cite the example of a very dear
friend of mine called Professor Walter
Russell me who is a scholar at the
Hudson Institute in Washington DC Walter
is an established known Authority on
Democracy political science
geopolitics and uh he's also um a person
who works very closely in foreign policy
he an adviser to White House and um the
uh here is what I heard from from Walter
Walter said that couple of years ago he
didn't know much about India but then he
was told that you know this is what's
going on you know you was Indian
democracy he tried doing some research
and he discovered that there are lots
and lots of voices out there on the
internet and in media which are either
extremely anti-india they're extremely
Pro India and he said you know what I'm
going to do since I don't know India
well and this I'm talking about the West
let's let's assume Walter is a
reflection of the West he said I'm going
to pack my bags and visit India he comes
he comes and spends a little bit of time
in India and he discovers
that whatever he had read in the media
was not only overblown from both sides
but what he didn't realize is that what
he uh you know what he discovered is
that uh the Democracy not just vibrant
but there is a there's something going
on here which is uh which is uh you know
reflected in his meeting with Prime
Minister Modi so Walter goes U gorov to
meet the PM and says how do you think I
should what should I do to gauge the
health of Indian democracy and the Prime
Minister
said go to aoda and go to Varanasi which
Walter did what's very interesting is
after plunging into both these cities he
came out with one brilliant Insight that
what Modi has pulled off is marrying
this fer that's rising in India the sort
of Hindu nationalism that might be there
with
business he has figured out a way to
create profit out of it he said the kind
of profits that Varanasi and aodha alone
are generating is something that is if
that is replicated in the rest of India
we are looking at absolutely an act of a
genius being pulled off here it's
beginning it's very imperfect but it's
happening so he's so my view of that is
the West must spend the time to come and
see India and understand it better
rather than judging it from from media
here so with that said Not only am I
thrilled to have gorov but this but
tripur is my nephew so enjoy thank you
very much ma'am very kind of you to have
joined us um and set the stage for this
conversation so um as a scholar as a
historian as a writer as an academic do
you think there is a backslide you know
when we talk about Indian democracy
we're all gearing up for the 2024
elections now
no I wrote a piece for the Journal of
democracy last year as well on why the
idea of backsliding is a misnomer in the
Indian context first because it
misunderstands
the uh historical context in which
Indian democracy was born it
misrepresents the Constitutional and
institutional structure on which Indian
democracy is premised uh and It suffers
from what I call the Towell effect or a
kind of recency bias so if you think
about backsliding
backsliding Visa what and backsliding
from which point to which point
so it's either backsliding from a
normative ideal which is generally taken
to be the advanced democracies of
Western Europe and North
America India has never been like the
advanced democracies of Western Europe
and North
America its foundation addressed a very
speciic specific set of circumstances it
faced a very specific set of questions
so Indian democracy is normatively
unique it's a it's a
singularity so comparison with the a
normative comparison with the advanced
democracies of the west where you say
each degree of
Divergence uh or each um spectrum of
difference somehow represents a spectrum
of inferiority is in my mind like a very
uh strange and unproductive comparison
to make what was the response to this
piece of yours in the academic world in
the west um or from the society was
there a push
back uh I mean academic debate is of
course part and parcel of the job but I
do know that some people were were not
very happy with uh with what I'd written
um and many people I think suspect that
it's in a that it that it could be seen
as an attempt to provide a form of
intellect ual cover to uh to the current
political configuration uh of course
that is not my intention but uh
interestingly even when one of my books
went for peer review this was one of the
uh pieces of feedback that came from the
reviewers that I incorporate a paragraph
uh in it saying that it is not my int it
is not the intention of the book to
provide any sort of uh intellectual
cover for any future sort of
constitutional scaldy uh which I did um
in the the in the addition that was
published in Britain so um and this was
only for Britain so you were asked to
add a para to your book that it's not
meant to help a a
government
uh I wasn't specifically asked to but
the way academic publishing works you
get a series of reports from your
academic reviewers and you address the
concerns they raise um and so this was
one of the concerns and since uh I had
to address that concern this was the
primary way that they expected me to
address it which which I did and
obviously the book is not intended to
provide intellectual cover for any form
of in constitutional scary
either I you know before we come to your
book um and and talk about specifically
about the 16 days I want you to look at
and I want friends here to look at some
of the cartoons that have appeared in
newspapers uh in the media in in the
West for example when it came to Mission
mongal India's Mission mongal and there
were U some cartoons that were printed
in the Press there and not just that
when Indian economy was doing very well
um you know they they show a snake
charmer uh and uh when when we talk
about India's population they show an
overcrowded train compared to China does
all of that reflect a certain so for
example this is what appeared in a in a
newspaper or that uh India's Mangal
Mission Mars mission uh this is is this
is this reflective of a bias against
India it's definitely reflective of
ignorance and there's a sense of you
know orientalist stereotyping that
suffuses a lot of commentary and a lot
of writing uh on India and there you
know there's there's no denying that uh
saying that that it isn't necessarily
bias bias comes uh you know would come
from a place of knowledge and a place of
information this is uh down outright
ignorance and um it's quite common and I
would just flip that again so part of
the question is why the West
misunderstands what's happening in India
and the underside of that question is
why does India fail to represent and put
forward its Point uh in you know in a
way that can change the change the
current thinking so both sides of the
question are worth worth thinking about
okay because one of these cartoons and
uh all of us who are sitting here we
talk about the international solar
Alliance and India gaining from solar
energy and then uh a publication puts
out poor people eating a solar
panel this this cannot really be
ignorance this is this a bias is this a
pronounced
bias yes and it's drawn very much from
from ignorance from an old sty a kind of
old style entitlement you know which uh
a lot of
orientalists uh commentary is was was
suffused by the idea that India was a
nation of snake Charmers I mean uh if
you look at the visual imagery of
Merchant Ivory films uh you know it's
it's very much from that era and the
West uh or large parts of the Western
commentariat in a sense are yet to catch
up with the transformation that India
that India has undergone and this is
very very representative of that it's an
extremely poor taste and it is very
representative of a certain kind of
ignorance and a certain kind of
orientalist stereotyping which diffuses
very large parts of the West I'm not
saying that it's uh it doesn't represent
bias I'm saying that that bias doesn't
necessarily come from a place of
hostility but it definitely comes from a
place of profound
ignorance and when critics say that U
look at the Judiciary in India for
example U they don't really take on the
government um and and they they almost
end up being on the same page as the
executive do you buy that historically
the Judiciary in India has been shy of
taking on the government and of uh uh
you know having in a sense a real fist
fight with the executive I think part of
the reason is that the Judiciary has
been reticent to give judgments that
they do not think will meet a certain
threshold of social
legitimacy and they're wary of giving
judgments which they do not think will
be obeyed or do they think will be
openly flouted if you look at it
historically I mean the Judiciary has
given has you know it legitimized the
emergency it ruled that actually even
the right basic right to life and
Liberty stood suspended and they gave a
judgment supporting that um and so there
is a by and part of it is of course the
Judiciary is thinking part of it is also
by Design India is very much uh as I
said we were answering a very unique set
of circumstances so India is by design
an executive heavy democracy and it is
that for a variety of historical reasons
and so the executive is very much placed
in the driving seat uh of the
Constitutional schemata so it is not
surprising that the Judiciary has shied
away from uh challenging challenging the
executive Beyond a point uh what is
surprising is actually the extent to
which the Judiciary has gone it has
actually through judge creation of uh
doctrines like the basic structure um
actually acquired a degree of power
which would be almost unheard of in many
other Democratic setups okay when the
government talks about a uniform civil
code or or reforming personal laws does
that smack of
majoritarianism or is is the government
well within its rights to do so and the
ISM that comes India's way that this is
nothing but again vote Bank politics or
or rank
majoritarianism again two things India
is majoritarian by Design the reason we
chose the first pass the post system
which generates you where you know a
relatively small percentage of votes can
generate very very large major
majorities was designed precisely for
this reason because they saw it as
guaranteeing a kind of stability and a
kind of Unified Government at the center
which would otherwise not acre if you
had taken on say a presidential
adversarial sort of presidential system
like the US uh or proportional
representation as you see in many
countries in Europe so we are
majoritarian by
Design
again we have what is often called and
if you look back at perhaps the the big
dog of constitutional Scholars Granville
Austin um we have a constitution that is
social revolutionary in nature it hands
to the state vast powers to intervene in
the social do domain to regulate social
relationships to legalize social
relationships and that was precisely
because India's founding figures
ambedkar and Neu chiefly thought that
Indian Society lacked the capacity for
social reform in and of itself and that
is why not only did the state arm itself
with these vast coercive Powers it
intervened very heavily in the social
domain to reform Hindu laws to regulate
for example to open up
temples uh to have state intervention in
temples which is now a very contentious
question as you know uh um for on the
question of cast uh and to address the
question of cast discrimination and so
if you have that logic driving the
Constitutional schemata to say that
somehow one section of the population
can be immune to it or somehow has the
capacity for social reform but
x uh you know segment of the population
doesn't to my mind smacks of uh a kind
of very it's it's facts of cognitive
dissonance if one was to make that claim
so if you're reforming let's say the
Hindu laws you well within your rights
to reform Muslim laws and that does not
rank of majoritarianism or reak of
majoritarianism it doesn't reak of
majoritarianism at all uh in fact
completely the opposite in fact more or
less uh again I will give you uh a
historical example by force of habit
nothing else um it is that generally
when say really consequential steps have
been taken they've been justified by
reference to the directive principles of
State policy with the idea that these
were in effect guidelines based on which
the governance of the country was to be
conducted and so there was an idea and
it was very much put into the
constitution in the form of a directive
principle that one day we would have
Universal civil law
uh and so first it is not majoritarian
simply because we chose a particular
system we chose it for a reason uh and
secondly given that the state is armed
with a certain degree of power to
intervene in the social domain for a
particular reason for it to use that
power for precisely that reason uh
cannot really be termed majoritarianism
in my opinion at all again that
criticism that comes um India's way is
on the use of laws on sedition yeah
you've written extensively on the First
Amendment and the manner in which first
amendment was brought in uh when you
hear this criticism when you read about
this criticism that the government uses
stringent sections of the law to silence
critics where do you stand on
that there's no denying that the
Sedition law is uh and now it's been
replaced by another law uh which is more
or less the same uh that the Sedition
law is open to misuse but it was always
open to misuse
uh in fact it was Again by design it was
designed for misuse it was designed to
suppress uh Indian nationalists during
the during the Raj era and so for that
reason they the more it was my apologies
it was more or less decided that it
would be done away with when the
Constitution uh was written up and as
you mentioned it was brought back via
the First Amendment and the biggest
reason why it was opposed uh by such a
wide constellation and just just to give
you a tiny nugget of information among
the people that uh sedition was
contemplated against it was Neu even
contemplated using it against uh sham
Prasad mukarji who was then his own
cabinet colleague so it's a it's a law
written in necessarily broad terms to
serve uh to serve an executive heavy
agenda so it's not surprising that it's
misused it is surprising to me that
actually those who are subjected to it
when they come into power decide that
it's well it's now well and good and
this is another Trend in Indian politics
and you will see it throughout history
is that nobody
actually comes up with a concrete
proposal to do away with those elements
that promote a certain kind of
authoritarianism or a certain kind of
concentration in amplification of
executive power because everyone wants
to use it for their own particular
agenda so everyone opposes sedition when
they're in the opposition and everyone
is happy to use it once you know you're
sitting on the chair of government
there's also a lot of criticism uh off
late that free speech is under
tremendous threat in India and that
systems of checks and balances are
failing you know what whether it's it's
the Press it's the social media that's
under attack stringent sections of law
being used to to silence critics in your
appreciation has anything special been
done in in the past 10 years or is that
what the system has been like um you
know in in our country so as I again I
speak about the Towell effect Again part
of the reason why there is a lot of um
in a sense bruhaha over over Free Speech
now is because you can see a lot more
than you could see 20 years ago 30 years
ago 40 years ago 50 years ago but in the
arena for free speech in India has
always been at the capriciousness of the
executive so India will never be as
liberal as it was on 26 January 1950 the
day the Constitution was
enforced every Constitutional Amendment
every legal tool that the government has
created after that has only constrained
that Arena legally and constitutionally
uh over the last 50 70 a
years now you have a situation where
someone the state has the power to act
the way it does to constrain Free Speech
the way it does to squeeze that Arena
whenever it wants and then it's left to
the capriciousness of you know whoever
sitting in power the moods whims and
fancies of whoever sitting in power to
do as they will and so legally and
constitutionally that Arena has always
been extremely constrained it depends on
how far the government wants to
intervene in that domain and then to
fault uh a particular government for
using the powers that it has been
granted for the for exactly the purposes
that it is using them to my mind is
against brownie Point scoring without
actually having any sense about how to
address that problem if that is
genuinely a problem someone should come
up with a concrete proposal to say this
is what we're going to do and we're
going to undo x y and Zed bits of
India's constitutional scheme or India's
legal structure to prevent that domain
from being constrained in the future but
no one does it
uh and I think that is the that is more
important than any commentary on the
fact that Free Speech might be facing a
roll back or not in my eyes it's a it's
basically an oscillation dependent
solely and completely on the whims and
fancies of whoever sits in the chair of
power interesting and as we GE up for
the 2024 elections this dance of
democracy continues I'm sure all of you
are going out to vote but um are we as
some argue an elected a talk y or a
vibrant democracy that debate continues
weigh in on that for joining us here on
this India today's special so many
thanks thank you very much it's been a
great
pleasure thank you very much Mr Sing can
I request Mr shantar chro of Hindustan
power to please come up on stage and
hand over a token of our
[Music]
appreciation
[Music]
a big round of applause please for Mr
Singh for taking the time out and
joining us here at the India today
[Music]
conclave
[Music]
all right our next session is Ban this
session is sponsored by ultr Tech
cement and for the same to take things
forward I'd like to invite our special
session moderator sorab diedi editor the
Len top and India Today Hindi on
[Music]
stage
[Music]
sh
namaste
[Music]
H hockey
team
s or Sima school key hockey team key
Captain San duno please give a big
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hand
br
[Music]
the
[Music]
[Music]
Rajan
Rajan mushroom
lady Anu
katco
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
chyah
cement
off
[Music]
[Music]
p
[Music]
guard
s
[Applause]
bil
St
[Music]
fin
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Music]
captain
[Music]
[Music]
sub Junior R hockey championship
te
te
[Applause]
[Music]
yes sir very
good school
sangi
M captain
C
forward yes
sir yes
[Applause]
sir
yes
sir
[Music]
D kilometer G round D round yes sir huh
no
[Music]
sir no
sir yes
sir
[Music]
for s hoey skill move so you're most
than more than welcome infrastructure
build
off
[Music]
learning
so what better way then to go back to
home astronomy
theme
stargazing basically stargazing events
organiz
Focus
Saturn
sat
[Music]
[Applause]
yes
sir
[Music]
[Music]
sir
Titan
Saturn
[Applause]
or Jupiter
scientist scientist very
good or
observ
family
NE
blood pressure sugar or chronic
disas
tring
[Applause]
in
for
or
[Laughter]
[Applause]
agure
uh
sh
management
sir
City
m
infrastructure is the key
word
mushroom said know
thank you so much thank you very much to
all of our panelists this session was
sponsored by ultr Tech can I invite Mr
AJ dang president and head of marketing
ultratech cement to hand over a token of
our appreciation to all of these
everyday hero r that we have on
[Music]
[Music]
stage
more than
welcome they
[Music]
here okay a big round of applause please
for all of our panelists thank you very
much for joining
us I'll also make a quick announcement
here about our Breakaway session that's
happening currently mumas Hall is India
prepared for disease eses we have a
renowned epidemiologist Mr Raman and
lakmi Narayan with us in that Hall he'll
be willing to take all of your questions
so those interested can also head over
to mumas Hall for that
[Music]
session
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
all right we're all set for our next
session the New World Disorder lessons
for India can I invite on stage our
session moderator Rahul C news director
TVN and managing editor special online
projects executive director business
[Music]
today
[Music]
we've spent a lot of time at the India
Today conclave talking
about how India is evolving politically
and
economically economic strength also
changes the world order and India's
position unquestionably on the global
high table has changed in the last 10
years but what can potentially happen
over the next five given the global
uncertainty and all the other factors at
play how is India's position at the
global high table likely to change what
are the Tailwinds propelling us what are
the headwinds pushing us back to talk
about that we're joined at the India
Today conclave by three super sharp
voices on geoeconomics and geopolitics
allow me to introduce first one of India
preeminent public intellectuals Dr Samir
Saran president of the Observer Research
Foundation we've got B brande president
of the world economic Forum thank you
very much rud Chri heads carnagi India
thank you very much for joining us and
it's an absolute pleasure to have you
with us so far Dr sarin India's rise
over the past 10 years has been largely
benign where we've been able to navigate
complicated trapezes Russia Ukraine
what's happening in the mid East
continuing our ties with uh the United
States China remains a big stumbling
block but apart from that the government
has navigated the Foreign Affairs space
smartly how do you see that change over
the next 5 years are we likely to see
more head winds uh trying to push us
back or will the tail winds given the
current geopolitical order continue to
push us forward let's start from there
so Rahul I think the last 10 years have
not been benign we have navigated a
really complex decade we have come out
largely unscathed by all that has
transpired and it's it's really been a
rocky road and all credit to the Indian
establishment Indian industry and Indian
people for being able to pull together
and pull out of uh some of the most um
uh troubling periods including the
pandemic the conflicts both in our
neighborhood Afghanistan people have
forgotten about it Ukraine uh more
recently the Middle East but even prior
to that the shock that were literally
buffeting us since the early 2010s so
it's been a troubling decade and it's
not going to change what's going to be
added to this challenge uh is going to
be how people view India's rise in the
days ahead uh till now people have
celebrated an additional place for
Investments uh additional engine for
growth I think Bor mentioned this
morning 15% of global growth comes from
India so there is a bit of a celebration
about having an alternative about having
something uh extra uh driving Global
growth but at some point the second word
is going to come into place and that's
Conformity Everyone likes additionality
India offers additionality so they
celebrate that but they also want
Conformity do we conform to what they
assess is uh um a free Society a free
market a democracy a political system
and there you are going to see uh
increasingly India's growth attract
greater attention greater criticism
greater scrutiny greater push back in
what way sorry in what way oh um you
know you had an ambassador of a country
talking about CA uh you know from a
country which is having a problem of
migration and immigration of of this is
Eric garetti speaking at the Eric
garetti for example you know someone who
is probably familiar with the society in
Hollywood is now becoming an expert on
Indian uh political establishment so you
know for example you're going to see
unnecessary comments of this kind right
because it makes news it gives you
visibility it attracts people uh uh to
your to your job and to your
responsibility so you're going to see
you know I I think the foreign minister
said it or someone said it on his panel
you're going to see political sledging
an equivalent of what you see in cricket
you're going to see sledging happen
you're going to see India being you know
these pin Pricks these small um clumsy
statements emanating from uh you know
unconcerned and un uh uninformed sources
and you'll have to handle that that's
one part but the second and more inous
and difficult part is many of these
Global institutions that are going to be
pretty much respons ible for and I think
sanjie mentioned it in one of his
discussions sanjie s mentioned it in one
of his discussions many of those who are
going to be responsible for rating your
credit worthiness or for looking at your
ESG scores and multiple other indices
they are going to be influenced by many
of these voices as well so you will have
to institutionally prepare for yourself
to make a case for India that allows the
largest pool of global Capital to flow
into your geography it's not going to be
easy Japan is a Case Case in point south
Koreans have gone through this period as
well uh I mean Americans have gone
through this period the English didn't
give them the keys to the kingdom
without resistance so history will tell
you that emergence is not necessarily an
easy Journey you will have to battle it
out so we have a good decade ahead of
growth of prosperity of of lifting
people out of poverty and and meeting
aspirations of one and a half billion
people but we will have to do it with
muscles so we'll have to build our own
muscles I want to draw B BR into this uh
debate because when we spoke last you
said that that this uh coming time will
be the time of the G3 China the United
States and India shaping the global
order and that things are likely to get
better for India in the time to come
because the world is looking Beyond
China because of what else is happening
internationally samir's argument is that
there will be a push back a push back
which creates friction or tensions the
world will not very easily accept
India's rise because no country's rise
has been accepted easily ever going back
in time do you buy that that this G3 may
not fall into place as easily as people
sitting in this audience would like and
that they very serious headwinds India
would have to deal with I I didn't say
that but you paraphrase me in a nice way
go
ahead so um I think there is clear
correlation between a country's economic
success and also
influence uh uh just in its neighborhood
but also globally I think this is
frequently
overlooked Soviet Union was forever
until it was no more and the reason why
the Soviet Union was struggling at least
the last two decades was that economic
growth was not happening anymore still
in the 60s and the 70s there were some
growth so uh the reason why India's uh
also political position in my view will
be strengthened and we'll have more
leverage in the years to come is uh to
the due fact that uh India's economy is
also growing uh very very fast so it's
going to go from a three trillion uh US
Dollars economy to a 10 trillion one um
at least uh in the coming uh decade that
will also uh give India uh opportunity
to invest more in education research but
also its Army and defense you will see
also a stronger India there and then to
your question will this uh raise
concerns will this also uh create
challenges I think maybe mainly in its
neighborhood because the fact is that in
many uh of these countries in India's
neighborhood already China and India
meet each other in Myanmar Bangladesh
Nepal Bhutan Sri Lanka um so uh this is
already a fact I think India is
currently uh in a honeymoon phase uh
globally uh in many ways especially in
Europe and uh in the US but honeymoons
don't last long so for some marriages it
can uh even improve and improve and uh
but of course the honeymoons are are
very nice period but uh you know low can
grow even stronger per every year how
nice rudra this tension that we're
seeing particularly with Canada uh to
some extent with the United States
expressed largely in private sometimes
in public somei referred to the comments
made by Ambassador garetti on the
citizenship Amendment act will the print
Pricks in fre or will countries like the
United States a country that you studied
and analyzed closely continue seeing the
larger picture and even if there is some
opposition or resentment it's voiced
more privately and not made a but big
deal of publicly no thanks R just you
know one point I'll make if the
president of the world economic Forum
turns around and says is that India
looks like a honeymoon despite all the
challenges that Samir has talked about
and all the contradictions that frankly
this leadership has had to deal with in
the last decade I think that's a pretty
good outcome right um because challenges
are there it's definitely not a
honeymoon for India challenges are there
with Europe as you grow economically
politically strategically those
challenges will be there even with
like-minded States um on the point that
you're making look I think let me just
get away from the pin Pricks to some of
the Strategic stuff where are we in
India today what are we dealing with
right one we have a geopolitical
challenge which is a war in Ukraine
which has pushed us frankly to think
very seriously about divers ification of
our strategic resources reconsider our
relations with Russia turn to countries
that have the capability to deliver for
us and our interests over the next many
decades countries like the United States
on the one hand countries like France on
the other my own senses you know down
the line is and you know the elections I
think have been called today whichever
way you know in the sense I mean it's
pretty clear Which Way India is going to
go in the near future it's not very
clear where other countries are going
going to go in the near future I think
actually there's more opportunity I
think we and the reason I see the
opportunity is because we've created
that space in The Last 5 Years which
have been very difficult not everybody's
manage that space right so today for
instance we have a relationship with the
United States that covers everything
from Quantum to AI to defense
Technologies there are a lot of people
from the private sector here they
invested in this relationship I think in
a way in which they weren't even 2 or 3
years ago that's going to continue will
you have instability if a new government
comes in the US sure but I think by and
large we will have
I mean the line is pretty clear in that
sense um at least with the United
States the most complicated relationship
for India is China Samir and when it
comes to Bing over the next 5 years how
do you see the relationship play out
we're currently in
a in a state of uh you know
confrontation along the border our
economic ties uncom completely Frozen
but clearly are far from the good times
of the past does this continue at some
point in time do you think Bing sees
good uh reason and then starts piping
down or do you think this is the way
it's likely to stay you know rul when I
sorry let me just take a minute to
explain my first opening statement you
know I I was talking about sledging I
was not talking about substance
substantively we should in some ways
develop a thick skin and muscles to
ignore some of these Bobs that will come
our way the this is virtue signaling
this is American politics playing out
its own self uh and and expressing them
in in in in a manner that implicates us
but this is largely American political
system using India as a tool to settle
their own unsettled agendas at home uh
and uh we should rather focus on what is
really happening with the US and and the
Strategic Community the foreign policy
Community the business Community is
better on India uh similarly that's true
for what BGE was saying about the
Europeans as well and I think that's the
real story the real story is that India
is moving from 4 trillion to 10 trillion
and then 15 trillion over the next
decade decade and a half and people want
to be part of that Journey people want
to benefit from it how can we open more
doors how can we make regulatory
predictability uh uh uh offering that we
uh put on the table how can we uh remove
supply chain irritants and and make
India the manufacturing Hub so for us
the uh the real uh task in the next 5
years in the next 10 years is to
continue to receive the interest that
that we have generated curtsy the
previous 10 years we have to get used to
sledging now we are playing we are
playing men's Cricket or or or women's
cricket and we are playing it in uh in a
format which is competitive and we're
going to have to deal with folks who
will think otherwise and we have to
build the capacity to do that in many
ways uh the India China relationship is
a big driver in This Global interest in
us the Chinese Behavior not only towards
us but towards everyone has been the
single biggest Catalyst to to to shine
the torch on India and the possibility
India offers so more power to Xi Jinping
may he remain forever and May people
continue to see India in in the light
that they are already doing so I think
China has done a Human Service in some
ways to us and his behavior has opened
doors and windows and perhaps even made
us more aware of the the need to look at
other Partnerships and and opportunities
uh Beyond Beijing otherwise uh you know
in the last decade in the early part of
the last decade uh you were seeing uh um
a huge amount of growth in in the
trading relationship between does the
India China relationship get worse over
the next 5 years
here is my take I think it's going to
get worse before it get before it gets
better I think the next five years are
really turbulent uh at some stage maybe
when we are close to 6 or 7 trillion and
we have $150 to $200 billion sorry when
we have 300 to $400 billion defense
budget and and security um uh
capabilities we will make it costly for
them to be adventurous uh at this time
we have the largest asymmetry between
the two and for them uh troubling us on
the border pushing us on certain
Frontiers you know creating their large
presence in the Indian Ocean is rather
is rather easy uh we will have to make
it costly for them and I think that
becomes that starts changing this decade
towards the later part of this decade
and I think post that you will see a new
um perhaps uh Unwritten uh uh agreement
between the two to not cross certain red
lines we have to draw those red lines
and we have to make it costly when they
breach those red lines so I think it's
going to be a little turbulent it's
going to be worse before it gets better
and it's probably going to be half a
decade before wey what's your outlook on
China's prospects we seeing different
kinds of prognosis in terms of the
economic V the different sectors that
Chinese economy are facing but it still
is a massive economic reality globally
uh and what's your sense of where China
moves from here and how that impacts
India's
rise so it's um always challenging to to
discuss uh China uh in New Delhi but
um tell us what you would even if you
were we have to be real political about
that so if you look at uh China um in
1980 China was
0.5% of the global economy today China
is around 17
to 20% of the world economy and uh it's
definitely competing with the us and we
are seeing now a competition between
these two large economies that we never
seen before the US
20% uh sorry
25% of the global economy with 5% of the
global
population uh so us is is is
economically uh still an exceptional
Powerhouse the interesting thing uh and
I think when we're in India is to see
how has India uh maneuvered or how has
India uh come out of this competition
that I think we will just see more of in
the years to come between the US and
China and as long as it's competition
and not
decoupling um I think we still will see
global economic growth is that and that
is coming back to uh my last Point uh in
my first intervention is that
India has uh in many ways benefited from
this cor uh um this competition because
uh many countries are now looking at
their supply chains uh their n Shoring
their friend Shoring and we are seeing
more manufacturing coming uh to India
and many countries R including the US
look at China and uh India where they
look at India as um kind of check and
balances in Asia so checks and balances
uh is something that uh Other Nation
Nations do look up as a positive factor
because you don't want to have the
winner takes it all you want to have
checks and balances when India gets um
stronger and also economically and open
up its markets because if it wants to be
a manufacturing Hub you also have to
import the input factors you can't
produce everything in your own country
uh in that uh respect because then you
will not really be the manufacturing Hub
uh of the world that opens up also new
opportunities for other countries for
foreign direct Investments uh India will
also know need to maneuver very
delicately
uh in its uh security and foreign policy
currently a lot of the military
equipment in India comes from Russia and
with the unlimited friendship uh between
China and Russia I guess that uh the
current leadership uh in India also
makes its own uh Reflections based on
this so there is a lot of interesting
things um to see forward what we hope
for is that that even in a polarized
fractured World we'll find areas where
we can collaborate because many of the
most serious problems do not uh travel
with a passport they are transboundary
and in these areas climate change
handling AI future
pandemics both the G3 India China and
the US has to collaborate and uh they
can compete in other areas but in these
areas I do hope uh there's possibility
to find common interesting points there
rud Chri uh Samir makes the argument
that relations with China get worse
before they ultimately get better based
on India's rise economically militarily
uh B made the point that India is
actually benefiting because of the way
that China has been acting do things get
better do they get worse do they stay
the same no just to respond to what B
said look I think in terms of you look
at what is the opportunity and challenge
for India in the near future
the opportunity is the changing nature
of geopolitics that's very clear what
does that essentially mean it means the
dislocation of economic production from
one major country to others and there is
a lot of support from around the world
for that dislocation in itself can India
absorb a lot of that dislocation
absolutely is that an opportunity for us
at the operational level at the business
level yes are we seeing it happen yes
frankly what's the big challenge I would
say the challenge for us in terms of
geopolitics is in fact what the honor
prime minister and a range of other
ministers have mentioned is a rate at
which we can actually keep absorbing
this which means factor market change
which means ease of doing business we're
seeing a lot of it happen we need to see
it happen faster to be able to make sure
that we're actually arresting these
geopolitical opportunities we see it in
semiconductors we're seeing it in
electronic manufacturing you know rul 2
years ago um we were told by a lot of
people that there's no way that India
will have a 28 Nano Foundry you'll never
get it today you have a company from
Taiwan investing with a company in India
28 Nano how did that happen some of it
was dislocation some of it was change
that was made Made in India that made
this happened in itself so we look at
opportunities will it get worse with
China before it gets better on the
boundary anybody's guess geopolitically
I think as Samir mentioned it's not a
bad place to be where we are in some
sense let's spend a moment on India's
most important relationship which make
no mistake is the United States where
we've seen bipartisan support to India's
growth now some of it is marred by some
of the comments that have been made or
for example what's been happening on the
issue of khalistan and America's
perception around that uh but there's
also a bright chance that Donald Trump
may come to power once again in the US
in both those circumstances if the
Democrats were to come back to Power
will the with will the stress increase
and what happens Samir in your view
between the Indian government whoever it
is that comes to power and a Donald
Trump Trump Administration look I think
on that count we should be actually uh
quite confident that irrespective of who
wins the elections in November India is
going to be doing fairly well and uh I
think the drivers for that are pretty
much what we have already discussed in
this panel that there is a new
geoeconomic framework that is emerging
and India is going to be one of the hubs
is one of the central pillars of that
new geoeconomic framework we know the
political frictions and competition and
contest that are underway between the
big two currently is going to give us a
privileged position uh we know that the
region we are in is going to contribute
you know I think there's a IMF report
that says 60% of global growth is or 80%
of global growth is from the emerging
and developing countries many of those
who are in this neighborhood so even the
growth and economic drivers are uh
related to us pretty intimately so I
think Americans who have understood real
politic and perhaps have written
chapters on it in in the last century
understand this better than most and
whoever sits in DC is obviously going to
have a um a public facing uh domestic uh
conversation and narrative that is going
to appease their constituencies but that
aside in real substantive terms what the
us and India achieved in the last 20
years was Unthinkable if someone was
sitting in 2000 uh you know India Today
2000 would we be talking about us being
India's most important partner it would
be really a ludicrous conversation to be
having but it's true it's happened the
the most transformational relationship
of this Century has been the India us
relationship and that direction is not
going to change Donald Trump may add
tariffs and may seek to bring
manufacturing back to America they
Donald Trump may see think Biden's
inflation deduction Act is the
endorsement of his own earlier um
determination uh to protect American
industry all of that aside in real terms
the India us relationship is bound to
grow both in terms of its economic
engagement it's its political alignment
and more and more importantly it's
increasingly intimate security
Arrangements do not forget what the US
has done in the Border confrontation
with China over the last 3 years it is
the most underwritten and discussed part
but please understand today you have
more teeth and more muscles on the
borders curtsy some of the access to
Technologies eyes in the sky and and
collaboration between the two
establishments the intimacy in defense
relationship is going to be what is
going to be perhaps really
transformational in the next 5 years if
Donald Trump comes back or even if Biden
remains I think it is a material who's
sitting in the White House that white
house and and and India are going to
continue to have the special relu so
there are two theories one is that
behind the scenes America is indeed
putting a lot of pressure uh and they're
asking India to be a certain way which
conforms to as Samir says you know what
is acceptable in the local American
context the other is that there's way
too much practicality and pragmatism and
they're going to hold their nose if they
don't like something but just they
realize the inevitable inevitability of
wanting to continue to partner in
India's rise which one of the two do you
think is more likely to play out in the
next 5 years the tension is going to
exist um you know on this particular
incident that you talked about I think
in the summer there'll be newspaper
headlines there will be a some case that
takes place in New York Etc there will
be some kind of push and pressure in
itself my own sense is pretty clear
strategically we're absolutely clear in
terms of where we're going with the US I
think the US Administration whichever
one it is is pretty clear where it's
going with India the operational tension
will be left to diplomacy and how you
deal with that but the Strategic
Investments that are we seeing at the
moment is I think will help balance the
scales at least in the near future there
are just way too many American
Investments coming this way you have a
US Army today coming to India and saying
that listen we have to decouple all our
military supply chains by 2028 we need
to do it here we need your ammunition
factories when you have that game of
Leverage where your producing what they
need not only for themselves but also
for the world it changes the tone of the
debate altogether look the the look at
the Ukraine conflict right Russia is out
producing the entire EU and American
production complex defense defense
industrial complex uh I was in a
conversation with uh some quad members
and names shall not be taken and one of
the biggest anxieties and perhaps even
their optimistic assessments was that
bring India into Play Bring
manufacturing at scale into play if they
need to be producing at scale to
confront and and you know Russia is not
China China is multiple multiple times
uh the threat the Russian
capabilities you know POs to them so
they are really thinking about this
being being the big base that allows uh
the largely uh similar like-minded
countries that constitute the court to
be able to put together a framework but
but just one more thing but you know
even look at the even look at the
sledging as I call it right look at it
look at what the American response was
to something that happened in the
Canadian response was American response
remove the American Media American Media
has its own life lives in la la land and
let them cater to the readers there but
look at the American state the American
state had conversation behind closed
doors and you had the Canadians going to
their Parliament and making crazy
statements and that's the difference
between a country that is determined to
create a strategic relationship with a
partner and sees in the partner a future
that is cjoint and and and in many ways
coterminous while the other one is
basically seeking votes for the next
elections that's the difference between
the American Elite when you look at
India's rise what worries you the most
what is it that you think uh is a of
greatest concern from your
Purge so maybe I'll comment on this um
situation about uh us India relations
first and then I I'll come back uh to
that you know there is between the US
and uh India there is uh not a lot of
challenges it's it's
mainly um common
interests uh and you know the only
bipartisan issue in Washington DC is the
relationship uh with China and uh in
India is not relying a lot on export and
import from China contrary to many other
nations there is some but not as much as
Europe that also uh of course is
importing a lot from China but also
exports um to uh China so Europe uh is
more uh between a rock and a hard place
in that relationship India also has um
the advantage for itself that the growth
in the years to come will also come a
lot from the emerging economies and as I
said to you earlier today Rahul already
50% in the coming years of the global
growth will come from emerging economies
and after 2040 probably
60% so so India can also build an
ecosystem of friends among these
emerging economies in Latin America in
Africa but also in
asan uh that can benefit uh India the
strength of the us since the second
world war is not only that they were on
top of the Britain Woods institutions
but they also had a unique ecosystem of
friends and um with the US India
relations we have seen that uh India has
been able to work both with President
Trump but uh also with the current
Administration the challenges for India
moving forward is that uh um on the
security side uh of course any kind of
conflicts and Wars will uh be very
negative for growth and investment so
that's why I think there will be uh also
solution
on the border conflicts with uh with
China I don't think that is any uh of
these two nation's interest to escalate
uh this further but of course uh India
relies a lot today as I mentioned on
Russian military equipment and I think
India also in the coming decade will be
a big buyer of U us equipment to um both
hedge but also make sure that uh one can
then uh manage uh the necessary
deterrence another ex factor is the
development in Pakistan and we know that
Pakistan is also a nuclear uh Power I
don't think there will be uh major
flareups but of course uh we uh can see
a further
deteriation uh in this relationship
hopefully not
but we know the economic situation in
Pakistan uh is not um not the best so
then I so India needs to maneuver its
neighboring uh area and many of the
neighbors are also uh Muslim countries
and uh this is something also India of
course has to factor in uh it in its um
in its policy so the stopwatch tells me
time's up and therefore this is is where
I wrap up B brand for coming all the way
from the world economic Forum in
Switzerland thank you very much thanks
also to rudra and to Samir Saran for
joining us we were able to cover a fair
amount of ground and give you some food
for thought on how India's equations
with important Global players are likely
to change the good and maybe they not so
good so thank you very much can we have
a warm Round of Applause for our
speakers for this session thank you very
much thank you thank you thank gentlemen
I request you to stay on stage can I
have Mr abish K managing director of
radical ketan to join us here on stage
and hand over a token of our
[Music]
appreciation a big round of applause
please and a big thank you to Mr Chri Mr
sinin and Mr BR for taking the time out
and join us here at the India Today
[Music]
conclave Mr
[Music]
K
[Music]
so the election dates are out let's get
back to hardcore politics shall we
that's exactly what our next session is
India's opposition the search for a
narrative and strategy and I'd like to
invite session moderator prti Chri
executive editor India Today television
to introduce our speakers for the
[Music]
session
so ladies and gentlemen every time um as
a student you knew exams are around the
corner but the dates were not out so you
could chill a bit it'll take some time
but when it comes down to election we
knew the elections are around the corner
but the dates are not out well the dates
are out exactly an hour ago and in 33
days the first vote will be cast it will
be a battle of narratives where it comes
down to the India Alliance versus the
the NDA till now whether one likes it
not likes it the perceptional narrative
is that the BJP will it cross 370 will
the NDA reach 400 will the Congress
actually cross 50 not quite about who is
going to win this election does the
India Alliance have a strategy a
narrative I want to invite on stage
former Chief Minister Jammu and Kashmir
Omar
Abdullah former deputy chief minister
Rajasthan such as
pilot Delhi cabinet minister arief so
the arm admy party the NC and the
Congress all part of the India Alliance
there seems to be a bit of an ambiguity
where the NC is concerned is it still
part of the India Alliance not part of
the India Alliance we're going to take
that question right on top Mr Abdullah
are you a part of the India Alliance
still because your father says you're
going to do it alone you say that you
don't want to go with the muftis or the
PDP but you want to go with the Congress
but there's ambiguity there no there's
absolutely no ambiguity uh We've made it
very clear that uh we are a part of the
India Alliance and uh our seat sharing
talks with the Congress have more or
less concluded uh we' made it very clear
that the three seats that are already
with the India Alliance which are the
seats uh from the Kashmir Valley those
will be contested by the National
Conference and the other three seats in
urw Jammu and Kashmir including ladak
and karil in that as well those will be
contested by the Congress in
consultation with particularly for the
karil ladak seat in consultation with
other groups there but the PDP is now
not a part of the India Alliance no
that's a question for the Congress I'm
not answerable for the PDP and I'm not
answerable for the wider India Alliance
I'm answerable for my relationship with
the India Alliance not the pdp's
relationship so you have no no
relationship with the PDP with the PDP
look you're talking about the India
Alliance right now okay fine all right
so that's for the Congress um but Mr
Abdullah to ask you the election dates
were announced a that bit disappointed
that Jammu and Kashmir dates were not
out today well I'm a bit disappointed
but not surprised uh because all this ha
that's been created about one nation one
election uh clearly uh the election
commission the jnk government and to
that extent the government of India uh
is unable to put its money where its
mouth is I mean this was an ideal time
to actually roll out the process of one
nation one election now if you can't
have one nation I mean you can't have
Jammu and Kashmir polls at the same time
as the rest of the country now how are
you promising it for
2029 this was a test case and clearly in
this test case they failed we were very
hopeful look we haven't had an Assembly
election in Jammu and Kashmir since 2014
so you're going on 10 years now 10 years
is a long time to not have elections in
Jammu and Kashmir especially at a time
when the government of India is busy
telling the whole world that everything
is so much better if it is so much
better then the proof of the pudding is
in the eating let's have those elections
and let's see how much better things are
Mr pilot 33 days before the first vote
is cast the first phase of election 19th
of April unfortunately for the India
Alliance which your party is a huge part
of the conversation is not who will be
the Prime Minister but who will be the
leader of opposition whether you'll even
cross that 54 Mark of the 10% where five
why are you smiling Mr
Abdullah okay it's actually isn't
it unfortunately that's a statement that
has come from you I have never heard
that we don't think like that and P just
so that you know we are fighting this
election to win whether we win or not
that is dependent on the people of this
country and it's best that that judgment
remains on hold till June 4th number one
number two India Alliance as a
partnership came to the front because of
circumstances that this country
witnessed for the last 9 years in the
last 9 years the governance the report
card of the government the data the
issues that matter to the people should
be at the centerpiece of our
conversation and and a narratives
unfortunately what has happened in the
last 9 years has been a constant
systematic attack on the well
established constitutional entities in
the country for last 70 years so various
different parties and I'm sure the next
question will be TMC nii V party nii
fair enough but the attempt was to get
all opposition together so that we can
have a formidable and surmount of
challenge to the NDA and defeat them at
the pole
Hastings India Alliance except one or
two parties about 24 party strong and
don't forget in
2019 the BJP got 37% plus minus that
means 2/3 of the voters who went to the
polling Booth voted against the BJP that
means it's not what it seems like par
charar P par the people of India 2/3 of
them did not vote for the BJP so our
attempt was to assimilate all different
political parties despite having
differences and we still do but the
attempt was to collate a coalition
called India get everyone together and
you were questioning about Jammu Kashmir
eight seat do seat what is important is
is the opposition coming together yes
are we fighting to say in 10 years time
we want a better country with better
numbers in everywhere job creation
inflation price size disparity between
rich and poor all those issues matter to
us so the Congress is fighting despite
let me tell you we are also giving up a
lot of our seats in many states and it's
very tough for a political party to
yield political space but the larger
interest of the country is to have a
United opposition and who will become
what time will tell and people will tell
so let's wait for the elections to
finish and we'll speak after that no but
no Mr pilot no my question is not
whether tmci i n i and U you really
going to ask that no no no I I'll come
back to the question I'm asking you the
question is you know I'll tell you why
it's not a figment of the media's
imagination when they ask you this
question it's not built up just by us
and I'll give you the reason why you
know you say like you just said right
now that the constitution is at stake
you say democracy is at stake you say
this is the most important election that
has to be fought this time around in
2024 you say it's that important but
it's strangely not important enough for
the top leadership of the Congress to
take to the field where L SAA is
concerned where you want your voters to
fight it out but you're not getting into
the battlefield how do you expect the
voter to buy into an idea that you
yourself are not buying Mr pilot so pry
first of all I did not get so
melodramatic I didn't use those words
that you did I was saying that we feel
the systems have been challenged and we
need to have a counterbalance in a
democracy and opposition is almost as
important as the government so as an
opposition we are within our rights to
ask questions to ask for transparency
ask for debate discussions should we not
ask question why 147 MPS were suspended
in a single day and bills were passed
should we not ask why Supreme Court has
ruled against so many things the
Electoral bonds for example should we
not ask what happened in chandigar when
the Supreme Court had to intervene these
are important things and we must qu nip
them at the bud who's going to do that
unfortunately it's not going to be the
media it has to be the opposition so
please when you ask me what we are doing
I am committed to what I'm saying so is
my party and just for the record so is
India Alliance we will fight and we will
win our strategy who will contest who
will fight how many seats that's up to
us and we'll take a call on that no you
you're willing to you should actually
ask all those questions but this session
has exactly to do with me asking
questions on what's right or wrong with
the India Alliance whether you have your
narrative right whether you have your
strategy right therefore the biggest
question that your voter the number that
you entailed earlier is asking you that
wen't you fighting and I want to come
down to you Ai and and give and I'll
give you an analogy which my colleague
rajdeep uses very often where Cricket is
concerned you know this is the the most
important match you're fighting the
World Cup final you have India versus
Pakistan would you get your benchers
who've been warming the benches to fight
it out or will the opening act be a
suchin pilot asoke gelot aesi arind
kajal Rahul Gandhi Priyanka Gandhi
you've chosen not to do
so so I think prey first of all every
party and every Alliance is bound to
have its own strategy so what is our
strategy for selecting our candidates is
not something that is going to be
discussed in the India today conclave
but yes we have all chosen our
candidates to win the seats that we are
fighting because it is a Do or Die
battle for us and I don't think it's a
Do or Die battle Just For Us in terms of
the parties who are represented here or
the people who are sitting here I think
that this election is a Do or Die battle
for this country it's a Do or Die battle
for the constitution of this country and
I think that is really what is at stake
in this 2024 elections and I cannot
underline it more you look at every
Democratic institution in this country
one by one one by one they are all being
eroded I me until a few days back we
used to talk about the central Election
Commission being eroded we used to talk
about uh income tax department CBI ined
today with this entire electoral bonds
matter you now see that the biggest
nationalized bank of this country the
State Bank of India has just become
another arm of the BJP you now see the
fact that the CBI and Ed are not just
putting the opposition Party leaders
into jail but they have become like you
know we used to see those Bollywood
movies bomb
Dawn protection
M this is exactly what is happening in
our country you sent CBI and Ed after
the biggest businesses of the country
and as soon as they get raided by it
Department by CBI by Ed within one week
they hundreds of cores of electoral BS
so the fact is that today Ed and CBI
have
become
bond that is the state of the
Constitution of our country that is the
state of the Democracy of this country
and I think it is important that all of
us understand that this is the battle
that we are all fighting but you I'll
Circle back back to the question and I'm
sorry because I'm going to ask you that
again before I move on if it is a Do or
Die battle then why is it that the India
alliance's top leadership is not willing
to do or die you know why isn't it so
big for you to actually put your name on
that ticket why isn't a natachi fighting
you fought the last time in 2019 are you
fighting this time ma no but what what
makes you think that we haven't put our
best foot forward every party I mean I
can definitely speak for my own party is
that when we choose candidates there are
multiple considerations at stake right
so you are going to choose as per that
particular parliamentary constituency
who is your most winnable candidate now
that most winnable candidate may not
necessarily be the person that you see
on India today conclave it can be very
many other people who are leaders of our
party who might whom you might not know
of I think that we have put forward very
strong candidates in Delhi and uh I am
very hopeful that at least the four
candidates that we have fielded in Delhi
are going to be winners
even in Punjab we have fielded five of
our sitting cabinet ministers now is
that not heavyweight enough for you no
no it's not that you know all I'm just
saying is if there was an Arwin krial
fighting from New Delhi would be
different but fine I get what you're
saying but you know sain I want to get
you back into this conversation Mr pilot
and that comes from you know when you're
just
talking I'm not trying to pin the India
Alliance down but we're talking about
the narrative and of the India Alliance
and is if there is a cohesive strategy
or not do you you sense that there's
been a lack of urgency because I'll give
you an example 267 seats have been
announced of the BJP or less than 100
right now of course you're not fighting
as many seats as the BJP so that is
debatable but in terms of you know
getting your act together because till
November the India Alliance looked
promising you know it was coming
together it was cohesive you had these
multiple committees none of those
committees have met and you know see
where you are today do you at least
accept that there was a lack of urgency
and getting things together I fail to
understand PR please explain this to me
the race of who will announce the
candidates first that becomes a
parameter of you judge the urgency
elections announced today and we all
know when the nominations are going to
be filed we are fighting on every state
with some alliances it takes time to
negotiate as far as the narrative is
concerned I think the narrative is
already set we didn't have to set it the
narrative is is the government of the
day which has been there for 10 years
without any Coalition pressure what they
had promised to the people of India of
doubling the farmers income of giving 2
CR jobs a year of reducing poverty
reducing inflation have they checked all
those boxes have they delivered what
they themselves committed to that is the
narrative The Narrative is in today's
India you know just casting a vote and
having elected a government that's not
democracy democracy is that every
institution must be credible transparent
and should have the faith of the people
democracy is then you have a healthy
debate when the parliament functions
when there is a playing field for all
political parties involved when
stakeholders can say something so that
is a narrative it's not about Congress
winning losing India allance winning
losing today in India these elections
are important because the people of
India want to see a credible road map as
an alternative and we are the ones
providing that and might I just say
India Alliance has many partners in his
fold right we are still talking figuring
out names and we will do it very soon
but ban India the Congress Remains the
only political party that can actually
give a formidable challenge to the BJ BP
nationally every state has leaders and
parties which are very important for us
equal Partners no big and small but
nationally it is the Congress that can
actually across the length and breath of
India take on the BJP and defeat them
we've done it before we'll do it again
is there at least acceptance because
both you know U both uh Mr Abdullah and
aashi sitting right next to you through
the course of those four five months
when you were fighting those elections
in madhya Pradesh in Rajasthan there was
a sense that you could have at that
point of time you were buying time if
you would have started working at that
point of time in building your alliance
bolstering your narrative things would
have been different you wanted to wait
out that result and then take on it's
not easy prey to fight a state election
with a party and then come and talk to
them about negotiating seats it's very
difficult for political parties but we
see the larger objective we see our
interest today in the state is important
but the national interest is much larger
and like Omar was saying we whether it's
we fight one seat less you fight two
seat more in the end of the day these
are details end of the day when you look
back on 4th of June we want the India
Alliance and all like manded parties to
get a majority now I may fight two seats
four seats less or more that's not
important of course in negotiations we
always go to the brink But ultimately
the objective is to field one toone
candidates against the BJP and NDA and
we are really almost there in our Target
in terms of achieving that in most
States you know Mr Abdullah many times
uh um you know with that one odd sound
bite to television channels one can
sense a possible disillusionment and a
frustration with the India Alliance I'll
take you back you know to last year in
January there was this one picture and
that would go against because if there
is something that the India Alliance has
to say it is carried this know if you
can just turn back was the cover page of
most uh Mr Abdullah newspapers the next
day you know that has you that has Mr
Miss Muti that has Priyanka that has
Rahul Gandhi of course Mr K right so
this
picture exactly a year ago in Kashmir
you were there um gave out a sense of
potential possible hope and this was a
year back that it was all coming
together you know in paths and pieces
and the entire game plan and the
narrative was being formed is there
disillusionment a sense of
cynicism where amongst of of maybe you
know the Congress going too slow
dragging its feet could have done better
so many committees not one has met no I
don't think uh the Congress is to blame
for everything that has gone wrong with
the India Alliance and let's face it
there have been uh hiccups along the way
uh the recent uh State elections uh the
lack of clarity as to whether the India
Alliance would fight those elections
together or not uh that hurt us uh in
the India Alliance meetings before those
elections all the uh parties that belong
to those States they all wanted some
clarity as to whether we would fight
together or not uh the ultimate decision
was that we wouldn't fight together and
as suchin rightly pointed out uh that
was a bit of a problem because having
fought elections against each other just
a few months ago to get uh sort of seat
sharing sorted out now takes a little
bit of time uh but otherwise other than
nitish Kumar G leaving I think the India
Alliance uh contrary to a lot of other
expectations has done reasonably well
now as far as this Photograph you're
showing what has changed in this
Photograph I have I haven't seen anybody
who's in this Photograph announced that
they've left the indiai the photograph
has changed Mr Abdullah maybe at that
point of time you know it's the it's the
T-shirt but you trying a bit hard with
with the white T-shirt is concern and
rahul's beard is longer I had a bit more
hair under my hat but other than that if
you just look at the constituents of the
India Alliance there none of them have
disassociated themselves from the India
Alliance no I'll tell we have we have we
have sort of I'd like to believe we have
more or less successfully concluded a
seat sharing with the Congress so so I
mean where where is the disillusionment
where is the problem you know as a Puli
I'll tell you where it's coming from
because right after that picture where
both of you were walking in that white
T-shirt well you know interesting choice
because you matched it with Rahul I
interviewed you if you remember and at
that point of time in that interview you
gave me a timeline and you said If by
November we don't figure it out we're in
trouble it's yes and and as I said then
we we we did hit we did hit a roadblock
we hit a roadblock with the with with
the state elections uh I was one of
those who in the meeting said that look
we need Clarity we need to understand
whether we're fighting assembly together
or is the India Alliance only for
Parliament so I'm I'm I'm quite sort of
clear in this that not fighting the
assembly elections together didn't do us
any favors I mean if you look at the
numbers ra Sachin will know Rajasthan
much better than I do but when you start
compiling the vote share and you join
the smaller parties that fought against
the Congress and put together suddenly
you find that the congress with all
those people would have actually been in
a position to form the government rather
than the BJP so there are there are
lessons to be learned but uh as far as
the the the this Parliament election
that's coming up look I'll be honest
with you I didn't expect a seat sharing
arrangement in in up I did not think the
Congress and the samajwadi party would
be able to come together in in up but
they seem to have truth be told I did
not expect the arm admy party uh to give
up seat in Delhi I really didn't we
always felt that I mean internally when
we talked that if the India Alliance had
a problem it would have it in West
Bengal it would have it in Delhi we
still have one in West Bengal uh but
fortunately we don't have one in Delhi
at the moment well true but you know
there has to be some amount of
acceptance AI because through the last 6
months every time we had Mr krial speak
after one of those meetings in where
he'd
say there was a sense of
frustration no I think there's not
denying that uh there's not denying both
the facts first of all the fact that
India Alliance came together and has
stayed together that in itself I think
is an important achievement it's an
important achievement because you have
all of these political parties who have
contested elections against each other
not just in one state but in multiple
States why are we coming together we are
coming together because we believe that
there's a larger crisis in this country
a larger battle for the constitution of
this country but that does not make it
very easy to set aside the differences
and the past relationships that these
parties might have had so the fact that
the India Alliance has come together and
stayed together apart from nitish Kumar
G uh leaving I think is a positive but
yes there's no denying the fact that it
has been slow and I think it could have
been faster and I do believe that if it
had been faster the alliance would have
been in a better position today uh but
uh there's a saying in Hindi which says
they but you know I I'll bring in Mr
pilot there because yesterday we had
this whole shopology session and we had
some of the topologist of the country on
one stage and I'm not trying to pin you
down Mr pilot or the Congress but the
general opinion of most of theologist
was that Congress has been the weakest
link not just in terms of how they treat
their allies but also possibly how they
treat their own and allow me and humor
Us if pictures could speak a thousand
words we're going to just put the the
picture right wait out it's coming we're
going to put a picture out and then
there was one who's that each one of the
men in these pictures in this picture
has left the party and the general
perception is that the party did not
give them the opportunity that they
deserved the year that they needed or
the call that they needed at that point
of
time so what's the question the question
is why haven't you you left
a or is it in the
offing so I knew that at some point pry
has very very consciously done that ever
since we started talking to each other
on record but again for the nth time let
me tell you pry anyone who makes a
choice to change ideology or change the
political track is there independent
individual decision whether the
compulsions are there whether there is
pressure whether there's allurement I'm
not to say that's their own choice but
whoever leaves and does something else
some of party uh whether the decision is
right or wrong the final judgment will
be time and voters they will be the
final people who will say
whether as far as we are concerned in
the congress party if you think that the
BJP is so confident of getting 350 70 80
whatever then why are they picking on
every opposition leader they trying to
Pi every party every leader they trying
to get themselves if they were so
confident why would they want you know
all the Congress
leaders Dynasty nepotism Congress why
you taking them
then and you never ask me you asking me
who's left X MLA X Minister
XMP
work both ways if you are saying to me
that Congress men are leaving join BJP
two sitting loab MPS have joined the
congress party but pilot what do you I'm
not trying to pin you down session
narrative or
strategy but one quick question
all of these that you see in the picture
in there's no Ed Case CBI somewhere down
the line do you at least accept the
parties let them down they could have
stayed in the fold yeah everyone has
their own story please ask each of them
when you meet them next time what their
story was we were colleagues we still
are but different parties whether their
decision is right or wrong people will
decide people will say so each one makes
their decision regarding to their lives
and what path they want to follow uh
it's not for me to comment on what they
did obviously when anyone leaves the
party a small worker block president
District president he feel
sad but that decision but to say that
only people are leaving the Congress and
not joining the party there are many
people in Telangana and Karnataka
Rajasthan harana and listen one more
thing PR I mean not trying to pin you
down either but what goes up must come
down and cycle of time in the wheel will
turn so one has to stay on and fight the
good fight to wait make sure when the
clock turns you're there with full
strength is Mr pilot fighting the good
fight in the Lok saaba this
time whatever my party decides on me
I've done that and I'll do it in the
future also all right you know the other
issue where it comes down to the
narrative and the strategy um where
there seems to be a problem is that it's
an inorganic Alliance that um it's for
survival possibly not stability it's
anti-modi not proter that's the
perception and why I say that is on
major key issues let's talk about uh Mr
Abdullah let's talk about 370 the three
parties that are sitting on stage each
of this polit these political parties
has a very different stand on 370 you
have the arm admi party which outrightly
supported the Modi government we have
you who've called it unconstitutional
the Congress till date has been
completely ambiguous on what their stand
is where 370 is concerned so do you
somewhere down the line there um you
know is Credence to the question that
this is an inorganic Alliance it's for
survival not stability look if anything
I think that's the beauty duty of the
alliance that on on some issues we agree
to disagree but it hasn't pulled us
apart yes it's a fact I disagree with
with with the position that the arm admy
party took on the 5th August of 2019 yes
I feel the Congress could have done more
to protect uh its own I mean 370 was The
Inheritance that the Congress gave the
people of Jammu and Kashmir so yes there
are issues on which we we we disagree
but I think in terms of of uh the the
broad issues the the need as AI rightly
pointed out to protect the Constitution
to protect democracy to protect the idea
of India to protect the the the secular
ethos of India that is the India that we
were born into that is the idea of India
that we came to understand now these are
all ideas that we we solidly behind the
fact that the economy needs to do better
the fact that rural distress is a
reality even though it goes unreported
the fact that there are there are a
number of of educated youngsters who
find it difficult to get jobs all these
are real factors uh that that need to be
addressed I think the one mistake that
we make from time to time that we need
to address and it was part of your
question this whole thing that we are
seen to be anti-modi I think that's a
mistake because every time we sort of
launch a personal attack against the
Prime Minister it boomerangs on us these
it it does not work and and I'm telling
you from experience it does not work so
you think parivar wad was a blunder
parad was a blunder yes it was CH chore
doesn't work adani Amani doesn't work it
doesn't work let's accept it I think the
message that we have to take to the
people is not that the Prime Minister
has done something because I mean for
whatever reason the man seems to be
quoted in Teflon nothing that you say
Stakes I mean it's a fact like it or not
it's a fact I'll come back to that so no
so the I mean but who can deny that the
BJP has got richer you cannot make a
case that the Prime Minister has because
there's no evidence to support that he
has but there is every evidence to
support that while the rest of India or
a large part of India has got poorer the
BJP has got a damsite
richer I mean almost 50% of the
Electoral bonds went to them so I mean
these are these are sort of campaign
strategies that we need to uze the BJP
is only way glad that we limit it to
Modi Teflon quoted there are many lay to
it we'll come back to that but I want to
pull in um arashi this conversation
where we talk about why it's in in
organic Alliance like we spoke of how
there are very three different takes
where it comes down to 370 but at to get
you in on this you know how is it going
to work is going to campaign in ch and
ask
for then is going to be standing init
and say
congress the voters
confus so there is a bit of uh you know
pry let me assure you about one thing if
there is one thing the Indian voter is
not it is confused the Indian voter
knows their mind they know where to vote
whom to vote for what their candidate
stands for what their party stands for
so I think the Indian voter you cannot
confuse them there is a lot of clarity
that the Indian voter has and they vote
with their minds and they give their
verdict very clearly if you're asking
that why is it that we have not Allied
in Punjab but we have Allied in Delhi I
think that it's very clear that every
Alliance has its own Dynamics in Punjab
specifically neither the congress party
nor the arm admy party leadership in the
state was ready for an alliance so I
think that uh that is something that we
as a political party have to respect
having said that of course we have
contested elections against the Congress
we have amadm party was formed in a
battle against the rightly you've earned
your Spurs at the back of taking them
from Mr pilot
no so in fact we we were formed as a
party our first major electoral battle
in Delhi in 2013 was against the
congress party but the fact of the
matter today is that there are bigger
dangers to the country that we see today
and that is the reason why it is
important that this Alliance comes
together I may have my differences with
one party I may have my differences with
the second party but as I said we all
want to protect the constitution of this
country and it is no it is no small
thing today on WhatsApp you would have a
lot of messages circulating and you look
at why why I say that the democracy is
in danger there's enough number of
people who will tell you that if BJP
comes back to Power there's never going
to be any elections in Delhi ever again
for example if BJP comes back to Power
there's going to be no other political
party so this is exact the fact that
this is already circulating and in this
WhatsApp University is an indicator of
the directions that the ruling party of
this country is thinking of the fact is
that now there was a time when you would
have rigging of Elections I remember
when we were kids we'd
hear but tell me what is it if it's not
rigging of Elections if you put all your
opposition Party leaders in jail what is
it if it's not rigging of Elections if
you freeze the bank account of your
major opposition party a few weeks
before the election is around what is it
if it's not election rigging if you're
using CBI and Ed to make sure that no
other political party gets funding and
you get all the Electoral funding there
is you know I'm going I'm running out of
time I'm also MC so I understand we have
two minutes say how will she ask for
votes for congress how will BJP ask vote
for nitish Kumar when they go to biar
that's how you know what I'm going to do
is I'll allow you the three of you one
minute each because we've tried to tear
apart on whether the India Alliance has
a narrative or the lack of it but what
is the alternative that you offer
because you say this is wrong with the
Modi government right this is wrong with
the BJP what's the alternate that you
offer because at least if you look at
the messaging you have a face in place
with the Prime Minister number one you
have messaging in terms of vixit bhat
where he's talking about not just now
but what's going to happen in 2047 you
have hinda to go with it somewhere down
the line neither do you have a face and
the messaging is a bit mixed up right
now so one minute what's the alternate
Vision I talk about my party I think the
messaging is very clear messaging is
that this country deserves an elected
government that respects the opposition
that encourages debate and discussion
that does not use agencies at its whims
and fancies India deserves a government
where we have promised that we will
actually have an legal law for MSP we
are a party that is opening ourselves
for transparent discussions we want to
open liberal campuses
we want all of that and we saying it
there is a better credible alternative
will the India Alliance touch 100 well
the Congress sorry will the Congress
touch 100 this time we are looking at
272 plus was here last night he said
what come he can say whatever I'm saying
India Alliance 272 plus 272 plus okay
you're forming government then as for
you okay if you you know I I'll get you
in Mr Abdullah first in terms of
messaging let's talk about the ca if you
are because you have a very strong
position on the ca
you call it divisive in The Malley but
your ally will be fighting it out in
jamu so what's the alternate that they
should fight on where you are not called
a party or an alliance of
appeasement how is protecting the
Constitution
appeasement the Constitution asks you to
treat all as equal that you should not
distinguish on the basis of cast Creed
or religion does the ca not distinguish
on the basis of religion forget Muslims
there there's no place for Jews there's
no place for bahis there are there are
entire communities that are left out now
if your Constitution asks you to treat
all as equal the ca certainly doesn't so
I don't understand how being against the
CAA is being divisive in fact if
anything being against the CAA means you
want to unite
everybody do you have a number
272 I a very small politician belonging
to a very small part of Jammu and
Kashmir which thanks to this government
has become even smaller after the 5th
August
2019 I know only five
seats and in those five seats the
majority will come to the India Alliance
you have no confidence in your ally
who's sitting right next to I have all
confidence I have no I have all
confidence in them otherwise I wouldn't
be part of the India Alliance I just
don't know enough about the rest of the
country uh to stick my neck out in front
of such a wide audience I'll confine
myself to what I know about AI the
alternate Vision don't say what's wrong
with the Modi government what is it that
you have to offer and your number and we
going to close it then I think I have a
oneline vision for this election that
let this election not be the last
election that we are having in this
country that is what we are fighting for
in this 2024 elections and do you have a
number
AI am admy party is contesting 20 odd
seats I think it would be a bit arrogant
of us to talk about a number across the
country
National
Party you you talking about's party came
out of opposition to the congress party
but can I proudly say that almost all
political parties have come out of the
congress party so by opposing us in one
election doesn't mean we cannot hold
hands for the next future elections the
truth is they have to pull their weight
the fact is that most of our sort of uh
expectations are from the congress
party because there are there are what
just 300 seats Mr abdah that's the money
shot of this if I could say there are
there are almost 300 seats in which is
is a direct contest between the Congress
and the BJP in the last election the
congress's strike rate was under 10%
exactly that strike rate needs to go up
so yes 27 272 is definitely realistic
I'm not saying it your ally is saying it
we we've all said we will deliver the
majority of our seats and we hope the
Congress will do the same and we are
then pass the the don't forget 2004
India shining no expected vajay to lose
but people of India are smart they will
vote with full wisdom and I have
confidence that we'll get the majority
required well we don't know if it's a
Modi Shining Moment yet but we're going
to leave it at that but when it comes
down to preparation for an election two
years back the BJP is focusing on 167
seats all of those are weak seats not
strong seats each of the cabinet
ministers responsible for three of those
weak
seats let's see how the exam goes U and
let's hope that the India Alliance also
gets it act together I'm not saying it
your your allies it right next to you
but I do wish you well may the best man
win and uh lots of luck to the India
Alliance going ahead thank you so much
with all three of you for joining us
thank you for taking the questions thank
you I appreciate
it thank you very much can I request
sandip Gupta of the motwani jera
foundation to please come up on stage
and hand over a token of our
appreciation to aishi Omar Abdullah and
sain pilot
please a big round of applause for our
political panelist here ladies and
gentlemen
[Music]
thank you for being so sporting all
three of
you thank
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you
[Music]
[Music]
you
[Music]
oh
[Music]
look
[Music]
e
e
be
seated I'd like to invite on stage Miss
Kip Puri Vice chairperson and executive
editor-in chief of India Today group to
deliver the vote of
[Music]
[Applause]
thanks
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
good evening
everyone we live in an age where there's
an economy on distraction and a complete
Corruption of
attention tell me everything the juice
the Nuance the details and you got 8
seconds that's how long readers viewers
take to swipe to the next big thing and
here's some trivia we scroll 30 cm every
5 seconds in a week your thumb has
scrolled 2.7 km pretty good workout so
don't worry I'm going to be quick before
you swipe me right I can't imagine a
more exciting but challenging time to be
running a media
organization we have two Divergent Mega
Trends pulling in opposite directions
one the empowerment by social media that
has brought about a liberalization of
the freedom of expression these new
tools have given voice to large sections
of society in India which earlier went
unheard
unintentionally so many alternative
facts and truths are Avail available but
the second Mega trend is we do have very
highly shortened attention
spans you have a lot more Nuance but
nobody wants to listen so someone is
always going to feel unheard and
ignored so what is and what should be
the role of a media organization in a
time like this is anyone with a camera
and a Twitter and a YouTube account a
media organization is he a
journalist what is unbiased information
these days one person's terrorist is
another's Freedom Fighter one person's
truth is another's lie how do you
distill what ethical standard of
self-regulation are we talking about
when pass by live stream an accident or
give away a rape victim's
name what can you do about the fact that
some media now Prides itself in
explaining the government's point of
view with well argued fight well argued
facts and graphics and they do it
without any pressure from the government
are they
independent are they media are they
propaganda also if you're always
anti-government are you independent
what's the role of media organizations
in this new augmented fragmented
filtered reality is a question I grapple
with a lot I think as always the truth
lies somewhere in the middle I believe
the new role of responsible media is to
build Bridges bridges across the right
and the left we don't subscribe to the
tribalization of news the US versus them
prison this doesn't just mean being
middle of the road I believe we need to
actively come up with innovative ways to
pierce holes into partisan Echo Chambers
so they see a tiny bit of light from the
other side to create a more diverse
political
listening because supporting one highly
polarized truth may help social media
algorithms make for smoother News Room
and fatter bottom lines but they don't
help the social fabric of our country a
Yale and Berkeley study concluded that
even the most loyalist news audience can
change their mind when exposed to
different facts and perspectives our
whole attempt is to bring our audience
from extremes to a place of
constructive
disagreement my whole team is built on
till death do us sorry till built to
argue till death do us apart and as the
executive editor-in Chief I get the fun
job of dealing with a newsroom full of
strongly opinionated argumentative
rebellious questioning hustling
individuals which is all the
characteristics of a good
journalist you have seen so many of them
on this stage in the last two days doing
their thing we are not afraid to ask
questions our Newsroom is built on
dissent and uneasy peace if you like and
I would not have it any other way I
think it makes us better more
perspectives the merrier makes our
stories more
calibrated I see some disapproving heads
over there calibrated you're right every
media in this country is right before
you make your decision do con consider
this the media cannot play the role of
the opposition expecting it to do that
leads to unfair charges of godi or Modi
media if the opposition is in disarray
the media cannot be blamed for it we
cannot present an other side equally
strongly if it doesn't
exist we are observers in this boxing
match we are not the players if one side
is weak or doesn't show up we cannot
jump into the ring this is not faar this
is a matter of rules roles and
competence we are the medium we are not
the message secondly our role as media
is to take you as close to the primary
source of information as we can not Six
Degrees of Separation but two we hope
you saw that in the last 2 days and
we'll hear from the mea and PM this
evening straight from the ground or the
newsmaker with minimum loss in
transition and
translation clean Last Mile of
information and we always focus on that
there are conclaves Galore and we're
sandwich between many of them ourselves
but I think for the reasons reasons
above we are
different so as we get into election
mode and we see the great intoxication
and toxification of news do choose your
new source your leader and your conclave
very wisely the last two days you have
made the right choice baby so thank you
partners for your generous sponsorship
feedback and support and thank you as
always all of you for sharing with us
your most precious possession your time
and your attention
good
[Music]
evening
[Music]
he
e
G20 order and it's our honor and
pleasure to invite on stage here the
India Today conclave Dr s j Shanker
Union minister of external
Affairs also on stage our session
moderator shivar and Gita
[Music]
moan
so clearly I don't need to introduce our
next guest uh it's not often that uh a
rockstar welcome is reserved for a
minister but not surprising at all we've
seen this many many times uh uh I have a
picture that's very representative of
the kind of Applause we just heard Dr J
Shankar first of all welcome to the
India today
[Applause]
conclave not only has this picture
spawned a million memes and you see it
everywhere you go on social media but
you know for a minister uh whose every
word social media hangs on to uh
everything goes viral it really doesn't
hurt if you look like this because it
just goes way way wider so I'm going to
start with that image let's keep that
image there because I you know not that
people haven't seen it enough but I want
to keep that image on the screen Dr J
Shankar it's not just a meme it's not
just an image the things you say as
India's external affairs minister
resonate in the media in on social media
the things you say apart from just your
foreign policies and the decisions
you've taken your images go viral as
well what does that virality mean to you
so how do you read that virality it's
not every day that you see this kind of
thing that's why I ask look that's
that's a very unfair question to start
with you know I mean
uh I just try to be myself and not
always like that uh but uh you know uh
the the point is today if want think
about it you know to be India's foreign
minister at a time when we are rising uh
we are if you use any metric economy
influence uh all of that uh and quite
honest ly to be a foreign minister in a
Modi government you
know it it kind of sets your behavioral
uh approach does it does it uh uh you
know are you aware that there is this
large audience hanging on to everything
that you're saying and you know
applauding all the things you say oh
there's another J Shankar Zinger you
know he said something 30 seconds 30
seconds from a 1 hour speech will just
go crazy viral millions of views are you
aware of that when you speak I I I think
you got to keep it in proportion okay uh
so what you know actually if you look at
it what has been happening is we've been
putting out our narrative our case our
arguments and the world's been The Last
5 Years unusually contentious and
effervescent you know things are
happening things are happening people uh
make points strongly and you end up in
situations where you you hold your
ground or you contest it or you counter
it or you so it's it's very you know
it's it's a product of circumstances
product of times I would say okay come
on shev four decades in diplomacy 5
years in uh politics let's bring him
into his comfort zone China so there's a
massive challenge but also opportunity
ities uh you have tried to manage the
relationship with China it's been
difficult uh not just for India but
across the world uh one of the biggest
challenges for the world today is China
and the growing aggression of China in
many parts of the world not just in our
region how do you look at tackling China
handling China and how do you see taking
that challenge forward in uh the next
next government should you
win uh look I would say G the first
thing is we have to stop pretending that
everything is nice stop being uh worried
to express what we feel uh stop using
terminology which doesn't work for us
may work for them so I think being
straight being public being upfront
uh is the starting point now the fact is
uh it's not today or I mean I I agree
since 2020 the relationship has become
much more complicated I accept that but
it was building up over a period of time
you know uh and what was happening was
uh because we weren't uh honest about it
even to ourselves uh we weren't really
really uh articulating it and frankly
even
strategizing uh accordingly you know uh
I mean there was a time when we actually
said China is a strategic
partner I mean if I were to today say
this to anybody people would be baffled
but yet that was the official
description at one point of time so the
first thing is we've got to recognize
today that we have uh really in a way a
very challenging competitive neighbor uh
there are serious issues over a period
of time in our history many of those
issues are have not been resolved some
have aggravated uh it isn't just a
boundary issue uh there are you know we
have common neighbors we have a common
periphery there is competition there uh
there are very major economic issues
that and and when you say what do we do
as I said for a start we've got to be
honest about it we've got to call out
things when they go wrong but we also
need to prepare you know and the
preparation a lot of it has to be uh the
domestic preparation I mean if you are
dealing with the China you got to have
an economy which is which is uh geared
up for it now we have for example it's
only in the last decade we have paid
attention to manufacturing now because
of the neglect of manufacturing we you
know we started our economic reforms 30
years ago but we didn't take it into the
manufacturing world so we have these uh
you know uh vulnerabilities or these
gaps uh which uh make it very uh you
know make it very challenging to compete
so we've got to get all those things
right so you have to diagnose
it you got to prepare for it and then
you have to express it and you have to
manage it because you also don't want it
you know uh sort of going completely
a Dr Janka just to push the China
question uh a step further uh it'll soon
be four years like you like you said
from 2020 things have uh have gone South
uh the military standoff turns four in
just a few weeks from now sir uh can you
tell uh you know there have been many
rounds of military level talks uh and it
appears it has appeared for a while now
that the reality is that the uh you know
a resolution of this entire thing is
going to have to be diplomatic can you
tell us how the next government will
resolve this sir because it's a big
military standoff that's been on for
four years now well
uh uh I would say the the scenario that
I uh I can
foresee has been that uh you know they
have uh today mased a very large number
of troops along the Lac so have we as a
counter
deployment uh the resulting situation uh
uh and you saw that uh you know in a way
unfortunately go wrong in galwan uh is
when troops are very close up uh there
are all the uh dangers you associate uh
with that uh so the focus in the
military discussions has been uh really
about uh uh disengagement so that very
close up uh deployment of troops because
remember both of us are very forward
deployed this is not where you know in
the last many decades was our natural uh
deployment uh so how do we resolve that
how do we do it in a manner in which uh
it works for both of us there are issues
related to petring uh because you know
when you are deployed that close up then
there are patrolling issues obstruction
issues uh the workaround issues all of
which uh adds to a very complicated
metrics uh thereafter there is a uh
there's the next round of issues which
is really what you would call
deescalation which is the fact that both
sides uh we as as a reactive posture uh
have brought very large number of troops
with Weaponry very very close up uh so I
think there there a lot to it uh and and
uh clearly it is something where we have
to be both uh patient but also very
persevering okay um let's zoom out a
little we are yet to solve tensions uh
in our own region but India is indeed
playing a key role as Peacemaker in
other parts of the world a major role
when it comes to how um the world is
looking to India uh for mediation Russia
Ukraine the situation there Israel Hamas
War the situation there but a very
specific question Dr J Shanker there was
a report uh which said that the United
States of America looked to India as
also China and that Prime Minister Modi
did avert a nuclear attack by Russia
will you
confirm uh look we have since the
conflict in Ukraine started uh there
have been a number of issues in which
we've been involved uh we haven't uh
been very public and explicit about all
of them
uh in many cases uh one or the other
party or a third party or an
international
organization has asked us to uh weigh in
in some form uh and uh if we believe
that uh uh doing so was helpful because
you know ideally at this time I mean I I
would say frankly the world wants this
conflict to end but it's not something
that anybody is expecting in the near
term
unfortunately uh so the most sensible
thing to do is to say okay let me at
least uh help to solve one part of a
problem or reduce one tension or relieve
one worry uh so there are there have
been a lot of these situations
uh quite honestly more than you probably
know uh and uh including sometimes
fairly recent ones uh and uh you know we
we do what a responsible country which
uh which is which has good relations
with everybody uh does but did he weigh
in on a nuclear attack did he weigh in
did was there a conversation H as I said
we have been uh continuously doing you
know doing whatever we can to to reduce
tension to reli worries to see that
things don't happen which make it worse
I can tell you he's not you can't take
the Diplomat out of Dr J yeah you're not
going to get him to say we averted a
nuclear attack okay let's let's move
from Russia Ukraine now to the uh the
Indian Ocean Dr J Shankar where uh you
know with the Red Sea with the Fallout
of what's happened uh between Israel and
Gaza there's been a very positive
Spotlight on India and its role uh in
the Arabian Sea in the Indian Ocean
we're also seeing uh you know an
elevated level of aggression from the
Chinese whether it is in Maldives
whether it is elsewhere uh as far as its
own intentions as far as the Indian
Ocean are concerned can you tell us how
India is navigating this it's a complex
shape-shifting issue uh can you tell us
how the next government will handle this
this is a situation that is likely to
become a bigger churn sir well look uh I
think there are multiple things uh which
are happening in the Indian Ocean uh one
part of it as you referred to which is
Red Sea Gulf of Eden Etc they we are uh
in fact right now we have an ongoing
situation with one of our ships uh uh I
Kolkata uh so uh we are you know again
as a responsible country uh contributing
our bit for maritime safety security uh
dealing with the you know uh Prospect of
drone and missile attacks on shipping uh
countering piracy and uh this is
important for people in our country to
to recognize and appreciate because the
era when the Global Commons would be
looked after by other people that IR is
now behind us so uh countries like us
have to be have to weigh more be more
active uh to use our forces uh for for
common good
uh in a way and the Red Sea Gulf of Eden
deployment we have I think about 12
ships there so if you look in terms of
national commitment we would be among
the larger National presence uh uh not
the largest but among the larger
National presence out there the second
part of it uh would be uh again if
you've seen the last 10 years we've been
very active as a first responder uh that
when you have natural dis disasters you
know it was the Yemen Civil War uh it
was uh going back to 2015 a water crisis
in mives a landslide in Sri Lanka a
cyclone in Myanmar so where again we now
I contrast that you know with say uh two
decades ago where again when we had the
tsunami in 2004 essentially uh apart
from India really much of the uh uh
suckur and support came from outside uh
forces in a way so we have to see it
could be uh a conflict kind of situation
it could be a natural disaster but our
responsibilities and our activities in
the region have actually grown
tremendously uh in the last uh decade
the other part of it is the Strategic
part of it you know which is the natural
contestation between states uh the
competition of their countries you know
maneuvering out maneuvering countering
exerting influence countering that
influence that is something which is
which is part of the competitive nature
of world uh politics now uh there will
be ups and downs that is also to be
expected often uh you know political
developments in one or the other country
can can uh impact it uh I mean looking
back perhaps we should have been
strategically much more aware than we
were so uh for example you know when
hamant TOA was first built I don't think
there was sufficient understanding in
this country we are talking 2008 9 10
you know roughly that period uh about
the the uh implications that it would
have for a country like India uh so uh
we are today very
aware uh we are very active uh uh if you
look actually you know I'm giving you a
kind of a bureaucratic mea speak
explanation but you know when we
actually had a strategy called sagur the
whole idea of sagur is end to end look
at the ocean as a Consolidated space it
could be island States it could be the
oceans it could be a regional effort uh
don't deal with it in bits and pieces
and uh be aware of your strategic
interests and do what you have to do to
to safeguard it so uh these are all look
there's no any into it I mean uh this is
a permanent uh in objective uh of of a
country for home an ocean space that is
so approximate to it and where we have
such a central spacing uh we will have
to be continuously and persistently
active out there there's also concern Dr
J Shanker when it comes to social media
how um how foreign policy is decided not
decided in the social media space today
sometimes it's good sometimes we have uh
false narratives narratives being built
in that space how do you look at that
how does one counter that in it at a
time when you have biases coming in
various countries have their own
perspectives uh there's hypocrisy in how
they see India's position on certain
matters that don't suit their interests
how does one Challenge and beat this
well look I am paid to fix foreign
policy I'm not paid to fix social
media I mean no to be honest nobody can
fix social media I mean the nature of
the platform is such that everything
which you somewhat disapprovingly state
is actually something which gets more
eyeballs in social media but what about
the biases from International uh it it
will happen I take it as a count look I
I may not like it but because I don't
like it doesn't mean it's not going to
happen I assume this is a a medium which
is uh very angular uh where you know
which is very naturally given to strong
views where the sense of being
responsible for what you are posting is
somewhat diminished these are The Facts
of Life with which we operate so you
counter it uh fairly rapidly so the days
when let us say the the XP division of
mea could sit over something for a few
hours or a day etc those are behind us I
mean on the run I mean sometimes we see
a tweet I mean we counter it frankly
sometimes within minutes but Dr Janka
you say you're here to fix foreign
policy and not social media but that's a
constant side effect do you see that as
uh you know a kind of affirmation from
millions of people who are listening to
you as uh you know Dr J Shanker the
external Affairs Ministry you know
busting narratives that have prevailed
for a long time against India you know
we've seen this often uh you know
especially when you're abroad uh you
know when Western journalists have asked
you questions you have had answers that
have you know gone especially viral
because it seems to bust a certain
narrative also the language of me has
changed quite a bit significantly so it
has well look we've adjusted to the
times too you know I mean as I said it's
a reality so if it is a reality and it's
a medium where short sharp impactful
expressions are required then we sort of
uh shall I say move out of our old
comfort zone
and uh adjust ourselves to respond uh uh
in that way I mean we would change and
it is actually happening I I I see the
point but I you know since I cannot
change the nature of social media I have
to communicate uh ideally at least
recognizing it but if if I could
actually even utilizing it so that I can
also get ahead in the game
by saying the right things in the right
way so what's your sh sharp short
insightful reaction to the elections in
Pakistan in 30
seconds uh does silence
[Music]
count
so okay I I hope you're not going to be
silent for the other election that I'm
going to ask you about which is the us
election we'll come to the other
election right at the end but the US
election Dr J Shanker also this year uh
also a very interesting one to watch the
Republicans the Democrats Biden Trump uh
give us an inside view of how a system
prepares for this kind of thing you know
good relations with the Biden
Administration with Trump as well before
that uh how how does the system here
prepare for
this you know uh
uh it's it's it's interesting in in two
or three ways uh one uh because we are
not part of an alliance system uh we
don't have all the consequential issues
that come out of it okay because if you
look today at the world and uh you know
you listen in I was in Munich for
example at the security conference so
when I listened into the you know the
worries or the debates which people were
having a lot of it were actually the
debates of the allies of America and
they were debating what could be the
implications uh if for the alliance uh
if uh results go one way or or the other
the second which is uh in a way
peculiarly us was uh you know we had a
very difficult time in our America
relationship in the
19 7 60s definitely' 70s 80s so what
happened was because our challenges were
more with the
administration uh we actually uh
concentrated on the Congress as a way of
engaging the American politic so over a
period of time and you know this is an
account I've been involved with for 40
years we actually uh the Indian system
developed this very bipartisan way of
working of casting its netwide so the
moment anybody actually pops up on the
American political scene uh immediately
what we do is to say okay that's could
be a governor today could be a uh you
know firsttime member of Congress you
try and reach out so it's one place
where we have actually built a very uh
very I would say extensive culture of
engaging and and uh uh sort of uh uh you
know maintaining relationships now when
you take that into today's America let
us say last 10 years or so for us it's
very natural I mean I'm I'm not
disclosing any great secret that say
before the well before the 2016 November
results we had already reached out to
the Trump campaign at a I mean at a high
level uh and because that's the way it
would be and it wouldn't be you know uh
hypothetically tomorrow let us say we
are looking at the 20 uh 28 election uh
if you have because you know presumably
you will have different people there it
would to me it would be completely in
order that if there were four or five
candidates on each side that we would
have in each case
you know mapped out the candidate
figured out who are the influential
advisor this has become part of our uh I
would say our America sop uh because uh
that relationship is uh very important
and to uh that is the only way you can
actually get a grip on that
relationship well um which is a long way
of telling you that we prepared for
whatever
happens
well talking about relations with
America or for that matter the
Americas um we've had some concerns um
the Indian side with uh the American and
the Canadian side when it comes to
issues also with the Australian side but
the US ambassador from this very stage
uh Dr J Shanker said uh when asked about
these concerns about murder For Hire
charges so on and so forth that it is
not created a bump in the relationship
sorry what has not created a bump these
murder for higher charges or the issues
with regards to grouping panon or ner
that it has not created a bump but it
certainly is something that they're
going to follow through how is India
then really looking at uh the concerns
that it has raised and the concerns that
US and Canada now have with India no
look you keep using US and Canada sort
of seamlessly I would blow the Divide
because would line there for a variety
of reasons uh uh most notably that uh
all sendan uh American politics has not
given that kind of space uh to uh you
know uh violent
extremist uh uh views and activities
which Canada has done so I I don't think
it's fair to the United States uh to to
lump them together I I would distinguish
uh between the two uh in terms of how
are we dealing with it well we're
dealing with it this way that uh yes the
US has shared with us uh some
information some of it is in the public
domain so you are presumably familiar
with it some of it is not uh and uh our
uh interest is to also look into it
because uh you know uh to us uh there
seems to be a very strong organized
crime aspect to it which also impinges
on our own security uh so uh when we
were apprised of this information we
decided uh to set up a very high
powerered uh uh committee to look of of
competent people uh to to look into it
and that is an ongoing issue right now
and the Americans
part of that committee because high high
competent high level
people
sir okay but can I just add and ask uh
because uh again from this very same
stage US ambassador U Eric garet also
spoke about the other concern that now
us is raised and India said do not
interfere in India's internal matters
that's the implementation of CAA and he
said that irrespective we have we share
certain values we have certain values
you can question question our imperfect
democracy and we also will continue to
Monitor and do so with regards to India
uh the fact that the cutoff date is 2014
and the the people who've already come
in are already in now if we looking at
only Hindus siks uh pares uh Christians
and not Muslims is it that not
discriminatory is what maybe the West is
looking at so how do you look at the
Western View or how the West is looking
at the implementation of CA
well look I'm not questioning uh the uh
per imperfections or otherwise of their
democracy or the principles or lack of
it I'm questioning their understanding
of our
history okay I mean if you hear the
comments from uh many parts of the world
it is as though the partition of India
never
happened you know and that there were no
consequential problems
which the ca is supposed to
address so if you take a problem remove
all the historical context from it
sanitize it and make it into a political
correctness argument and say oh I have
principles and don't you have principles
I have principles too and one of my
principles is obligation to people who
were let down at the time of partition
and I think home minister spoke very
eloquently on it yesterday so this
second is I also have a
problem when people don't hold up a
mirror to their own policies you know so
if you say oh you are picking some faith
and not some other faiths okay I'll give
you a few examples of it you know have
you heard of something called the
Jackson uh vanic Jackson Amendment which
is about the Jews from Soviet Union so
you would ask yourself why only Jews
then there was the lenberg amendment
which was about Christians and Jews
again 1989 Soviet Union uh there was the
Spector Amendment which was a few years
later uh which was about bahis it was
about there was a there was a law which
was about a particular uh uh ethnicity
from Vietnam who were fast tracked for
citizenship because they had uh uh
fought alongside theeran an there was
fast tracking of hungarians after the
Hungarian Revolution there's fast
tracking of the Cubans in the 1960s so
if you were to ask me have other
countries other democracies fast tracked
on the basis of ethnicity Faith social
attributes I can give you any number of
examples now if I were to also say you
know after all why is the situation
important because because very often
when you have something very uh you know
very cataclysmic something really very
major it's not possible to deal with all
the consequences right then and there
and I think again yesterday Amit B
explained that that the leadership of
this country had promised to these
minorities that if you know if you have
a problem you are welcome to come to
India the leadership didn't thereafter
deliver on that promise now it's not
just our predicament you know if you
look in Europe many European countries
fast tracked uh the citizenship of
people who are left behind in the world
war or in some cases much before the
world war some historical issue which
was not addressed but you said I have a
moral obligation to that community so
the world is full of
examples and to me the context is
therefore very
important we're out of time but uh our
audiences would be uh quite upset with
me if I didn't end by asking you a
question that they've all asked me to
ask you Dr J Shankar which is uh we have
our own election coming up very soon and
they all want to know are we going to
see candidate J Shankar fighting the Lo
SAA
election that is not a question you
should ask me and I suspect it's not a
question you're going to ask the next
speaker Dr SJ Shanker ladies and
gentlemen thank you sir
all right a standing ovation for Dr SJ
Shanker thank you Minister for joining
us here at the India today conclave
thank you very
[Music]
much
all right ladies and gentlemen request
you to kindly pay attention to the next
few set of instructions we'll have to
clear the hall as the SPG Security will
come in to follow due protocol ahead of
the prime minister's address please
ensure that as you exit the venue you
take all of your belongings with you do
not leave any bags behind because it
will then be confiscated so request all
of you to take your belongings along and
step out off the hall please we will
alert you the moment we're ready to have
you seated back in the venue it is of
course dependent on the SPG security
we'll let you know once the protocol is
completed remember that seating will be
rowwise so keep that in mind as well
when we bring you back into the
hall
for
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
plus monthly news
uploads world's first AI anchor AA
highest followers on WhatsApp
Channel Dynamic and Trend setting
content we leave others
follow AJ banga the trust of
Bengal the wonder drug
semaglutide the new treatment for
diabetes and obesity is taking the world
an India by storm but its unregulated
use for weight loss could have dire
consequences read the full story in this
week's issue subscribe
[Music]
now get ready for an immersive Journey
Into the Heart of news politics and
insights that truly matter join India
today now on WhatsApp with the number
one election team as we gear up for the
upcoming assembly elections scan the QR
code on your screen now join India today
now on what apppp follow these steps
open WhatsApp on your phone check for a
new updates tab select find channel and
type India today after finding the
channel tap the follow
[Music]
button every single listed Indian
company One Financial analytics
destination
capturing the market mood index to
technical analysis and Trend
spotting Feer
comparism SWAT analysis breaking news
and much
more India's most new AG stock market
platform will help you make the right
investment decisions Market Today Live
Now on bus
today.in
[Music]
please focus on the employment of
[Music]
[Music]
theth
manifest
Manifesto
RP sanjie Goa group growing legacies
over 200
[Music]
years
[Music]
[Music]
when do you think this will be possible
I'm already working on a JY
vanilla strawberry butterscotch ASAP
next week when you believe nothing is
impossible you see no limits engineering
solutions for a limitless World
Kosar
hey
energy without energy there is no
possibility of scientific advancement or
human
growth MB power Madia Pradesh limited
the thermal power arm of Hindustan power
projects was established in 2008 under
the leadership of Mr rul Puri Hindustan
power is an independent power producer
having built a portfolio of 4 gwatt in
thermal and solar Assets in India and
other
countries we are instrumental in
Bridging the electricity demand and
Supply Gap in the world's fastest
developing economy we are on the journey
to energize the future and energize
India we are
Hindustan
power
Raa University learning
unlimited
[Music]
man
[Music]
[Music]
forish or
[Music]
[Music]
L metro
[Music]
line
[Music]
[Music]
offence
[Music]
Ultra
[Music]
cement radico ketan is one of India's
oldest and most trusted liquor companies
founded in
1943 the company has a rich heritage and
a portfolio of iconic Brands our most
celebrated Brands include 8pm whiskey
magic moments WKA morphus Brandy rampur
Indian single malt Jessel Indian craft
Jin and Royal rantor
whiskey while the prestigious rampur
Distillery is radical's pride expansion
efforts have increased the output from
160 million L to 320 7 million L by
introducing a new facility at sitapur
radico ketan is the biggest supplier of
branded spirits to the Indian defense
services and is also a leading exporter
of alcohol from
India as a business we strive for the
betterment of our society at large as
the company embarks on the Journey of
premiumization radico ketan is the
company to watch out for now now and in
the years to
[Music]
come
[Music]
[Music]
hi this is Gory Khan this Mala Aurora
I'm at martial art New Delhi they are
spearheading in ind's art movement and
putting all these artists on the
[Music]
world we look forward for future
endeavors with the most coed names in
the design design and fashion
[Music]
industry
start thank you so
much
[Music]
for
SBI Banker to every
Indian teach me how to
live color my life with
love holding on to each other as we
Smile as we s
ssbm World School making bers of
everyone
[Music]
[Music]
sbm
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
1977 the turning point of Indian
politics was the first election covered
by India Today marking the start of a
new era in election
coverage
1995 the nation's number one Hindi news
bulletin changed the face of Elections
[Music]
forever
since then we have consistently upheld
our Legacy as the gold standard of
[Music]
Journalism exit Pole
exact when it comes to pole coverage
nobody gets it right in quite the way
India Today does the most accurate po
where is my Park Park he get the first
[Music]
[Music]
Park EX
the only group that gets bang on exit
polls election after
election country's most trusted news
channels bringing you unparalleled
coverage of India's political landscape
from National polls to State elections
we leave no stone unturned and capturing
every moment of the Electoral
[Music]
drama with the country's biggest faces
AJ and India today are the powerhouses
of
journalis
political Stock Exchange from the
analytical political Stock Exchange to
ground reports on SCH P daily election
news Oni
shank thought provoking debates on
Raj the exciting travel log of bullet
reporter how did he a bullet reporter
sar's captivating documentaries at the
stroke of the Midnight Hour when the
world sleeps India will awake to life
and
freedom to now AR st's Dr
reports V bhat yatra where our reporters
travel the nation by train delivering
reports from both on board and on the
drown arj dark has it
all India Today Savor the political
fervor with election on my plate there
you have the classic Gujarati
saali time to forget
politics drive into datadriven analysis
with political stock exchange this
election season get set for the
political Stock Exchange the first ever
weekly tracker of India's political F
join Raj Deep's election round table for
insightful discussions Ride Along in
motorcycle diary with pry Chri it's
going to be a fun ride viewers
Motorcycle Diaries India is back on the
Electoral Road experience the vibrant
Encounters of chb we
met stay tuned as we dive deep into the
false of the nation to bring to you
every update on the world's biggest
Democratic
[Music]
exercise India today grw your election
[Music]
[Applause]
destination biggest ever election
coverage what's the mood of the nation
ahead of 2020 before Loa elections Clean
Sweep by the BJP in 2019 can they repeat
their performance in 2024 an India wide
heart to the country's
Po from north to
south of
the
IND from east to
west mood of the nation po shows people
want Mr Modi back for a third term for
the big questions facing India the top
trend on social media and the total
viewership Super Smash nobody covers
election
better when it comes to election India
Today elects India
Today news
chn platforms for
competition ladies and gentlemen the
wait is
over we are honored to have our prime
minister back with us at the India today
claim please put your hands together for
our honorable prime minister Narendra
Modi may I also call upon Arun Puri
chairman editor and chief India Today
group Kip Puri executive Editor in Chief
Vice chairperson India Today
[Applause]
group
[Applause]
time
[Applause]
[Music]
so
good
evening honorable prime minister
namaskar IND
[Applause]
conclave stage request
[Music]
[Applause]
amazing
or
[Applause]
amazing Modi
[Applause]
guarante
since your last conclave
sir India has had the successful Luna
Mission the historic G20 and now g21
thanks to your
intervention the inauguration of the new
Parliament the new exhibition space in
bhat mandapam the woman's reservation
Bill innumerable large infrastructure
projects from fast trains expressways
and
airports your government has also
overhauled India's Colonial criminal law
and Penal Code dating back to
1860 and then of course the grand
Rebirth of aoda by building the
[Applause]
Magnificent building the Magnificent Ram
Mand
you made India the fastest growing
economy in the
world
[Applause]
and all this done at a time of
tremendous Global uncertainty and
instability what a phenomenal year all
historic milestones for
India that is why for all this and more
you are the 2023 newsmaker of the year
of the India Today
magazine what stands out sir is the
scale of ambition the speed of delivery
and great
foresight during our interaction for the
newsmaker the answer which struck me the
most
was
[Applause]
honored guest this is what really
defines this unique leader who is going
about the determination and conviction
redefining
Barat and there's one more attribute
which I believe is his biggest strength
he understands and feels the needs and
the aspirations of the Common
Man and he's gone
about
relentlessly to fulfill them he's done
them for the first day he took office 10
years
ago sir I recently spent some time in
America and had a chance to observe the
society and democracy At Close Quarters
the divisions in their society seem
almost
insurmountable the distrust is so deep
and wide
everyone believes their own
truth and it's really going to test the
model of democracy in the modern world
whichever side wins the other will
believe the election has been
stolen I think the world will look once
again to you and to India the world's
largest democracy with the most healthy
turnouts voter turnouts and how to
navigate the modern democracy how to
create a new model of democracy where
democracy doesn't tear the social and
moral fabric of a
country and it's a difficult Challenge
and a huge
opportunity only a Democratic leader
with your kind of popularity can Ure
that no one is Left Behind with your
belief of
[Applause]
saas and no voice is left unheard
I hope that once this election is done
and dust dusted that we will have we
will be that Shining Light of a liberal
democracy which protects and preserves
the fundamental rights of all our
citizens in our interaction in my
interaction with pradan manri G you you
also said a phrase which has stayed with
me when ask what are your next plans you
said there will be Progressive
unfolding
you you
[Applause]
Des you described it as a progressive
unfolding of your
vision as you brace for the elections
the war cry is Char so
[Applause]
par I wait with great anticipation on
what Progressive unfolding you have in
store for
us
pradan mry G before I invite you to make
your Keynotes
[Music]
address
honored guest the prime minister of
India this will be his first speech
after the election dates have been
announced so we are
we are very lucky to have him here and I
hope you're lucky for him so Pradhan
manri G may I please request you to
address the Gathering thank
[Applause]
you
k
AR
G
team
[Music]
Modi
[Applause]
29
[Applause]
2047
Namar
dantric
India
toave
[Applause]
mood of the
nation
mood of the
nation
VI
headines May
headlines
May
media
startups
s l
startup registered
startups
startup
H 600
District 90% area of
the 600 District
start
y tier two or tier three
sh
start start
drive or
[Applause]
startups Roar
orar
mudra
Bank
Lo
guant without
[Music]
guarantee
loan
[Applause]
[Applause]
in PM
swan
is Street
vendors will be without
guarantee
[Applause]
Street vendors go without
guarantee
stre
[Applause]
rou
[Applause]
digital
V
[Applause]
Mar
watch women self-help
groups the
drones 1,000
drones
drone
[Music]
[Applause]
drone or drone
[Applause]
trctor drone
pilot
eom
[Applause]
work
or
drone
sector
transformation
Dr
Aral
[Applause]
come
headline in
di seamless
treatment
[Music]
consultation 24
[Applause]
Croc
aspirational District
program
prog
2014
noreast
2014
680 time
nor
[Applause]
bar it
[Applause]
District
[Music]
[Applause]
is
cabinet
in min 15°
temperature
commitment Focus
cop cooperative
develop SK development industry 4.0
[Applause]
tget
industry 4. has
skill fishery
Department
[Applause]
V
[Applause]
glob
promote one Earth one
Health
credit
card 60,000 in a
St go
down
St
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
income
of
living of
living
powerful
sh
[Music]
[Applause]
is Common Man of living
[Music]
passport
[Applause]
passport
delivery
[Music]
system support
2014 77
passport
77
[Applause]
passport
as
2014 Income Tax
Refund average
time 93
days
income tax refund Aver
[Applause]
time
2014 waiting
time
minut
fast to Plaza per average waiting time
30 to 40 second
[Applause]
[Music]
High
[Applause]
up
[Applause]
[Music]
am
[Applause]
or
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
207
age of
living comp
[Applause]
[Applause]
l
B Bill house tax water
tax
University 2014
income Inc income
[Applause]
tax
[Applause]
[Applause]
oh
[Applause]
direct
taxes
[Applause]
discount
discount s
[Applause]
lak g or middle
class
[Music]
[Applause]
s
s
[Applause]
comprom
[Applause]
disc
mobile
data GB 250 R per
GB
telone
mobile
[Applause]
data
[Applause]
PM
SU
solar
panel
78,000
[Applause]
onl washing machine
[Applause]
ta
[Music]
media boring
[Applause]
longm
[Applause]
[Music]
hindan
p
B BSNL or
mtnl
BSNL Made in
India
[Applause]
5G record
manur
[Applause]
record
[Applause]
recet
profit P net profit
[Applause]
9.5 family first
[Applause]
oh Zero
[Applause]
Tolerance
agency
2014
pmla
1,800 case
register Zero
Tolerance
[Applause]
4,700
2014
2014up
prosecution
comp Terror
financing cyber
bu
[Applause]
[Music]
s
so
[Applause]
sorry
[Applause]
[Applause]
mod
is uncertain
[Music]
[Applause]
world
Sol
semond
[Applause]
[Applause]
missen
are in
Progressive
[Laughter]
[Applause]
unfold
[Applause]
very
[Applause]
of
[Laughter]
[Applause]
thead thank
[Applause]
you
[Applause]
[Applause]
thank you
[Music]
thank you PM for taking out time on the
day that the elections were announced
it's always special to have you with us
but today it's extra special because of
this
announcement
timing
perf I also want to thank you for making
our stories in media exciting as we
never have a dry day
deadline be or
headline ele do
or I never thought as a national news
channel we would cover the local
elections in dead Mumbai and telana the
local Municipal
elections election with 977 CR
registered
[Applause]
voters initiative launch
sun in 100 plus towns where citizens can
engage with their favorite politicians
by talking to their life-size cutouts on
C camera conclave inv citizens were also
invited to write about their issues on
post postcards it's no surprised that
the maximum citizens wanted to speak to
you prime minister and write to you I
was amazed at the amount of feedback
ideas and best wishes the common man and
women had for you we have
50,000 postcards to send to
[Applause]
you AP may I please ask you to hand over
a token bundle to the Prime
Minister it's right next to you on the
table this is like a public
Manifesto can we have the film please
guys
[Music]
supp
best
Howard business school say
group
[Applause]
business
school
[Music]
byh but what I was surprised to see was
that even a common man had done a 2 by
two on your leadership your connect with
both bat and India is phenomenal this is
a SWAT analysis at the back one done by
a Howard business school team and one
done by a common man from a small town
in India which is what prime minister
talked about that digital India is down
to every small City it's not just about
Bangalore I wanted to leave you with
this small personal anecdote recently I
had the Good Fortune of walking from the
old Parliament to the new Parliament
they are just 30 steps apart but it's
like walking between two indias the one
I was born in and the one I will pass on
to the next
Generation I love them both I love them
both but they are a world apart the new
Parliament is pristine organized
efficient full of light and holds a lot
of promise and hope for the future the
old is musty Dusty full of our Rich
history the corridors whisper of our
trials triumphs great debates
remembrances embodying the soul of our
ancient nation and young democracy
walking between the two is a surreal
experience you enter in one century and
you come out in another it is the story
of your leadership prime minister in 30
steps both both of them have their own
charm
and I believe both are essential if we
are going to be a great nation I hope
that you will be able to bridge the two
as only you can the great indian spirit
in an enriched Enlighten new ofar best
of luck for the elections we are
watching very closely and
keenly
guarantee thank you prime minister and
everyone until next time
good
[Applause]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
evening
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
ladies and gentlemen thank you so much
for being a great August audience do
have a good good evening dinner is
served at the Shah jaha Hall this would
not have been possible without our
sponsors the India today conclave in its
21st Edition presented by the RP sanjie
goenka group powered by Kosar
co-presented by mwani jadeja Foundation
conclave partner Hindustan power project
group knowledge partner Reva
University tourism partner Gujarat
tourism
[Music]
thank you
so