preseason testing is done and dusted and
that means just one thing it's time for
the 2024 Formula 1 season to get
underway and for Tech talk where should
we start to look other than one of the
most interesting and important cars that
we've seen for a while let's take a look
it is of course the
Mercedes I'm not looking at the wrong
car by the way this is of course last
year's Mercedes the 2023 Mercedes W4 and
I just want to draw your attention to a
couple of points on this car which will
be coming up in this video take a look
at the design of the tip of the nose of
this all black car this is early in the
season last year and then as I play this
clip forwards we can take a look at
another interesting feature on the car
have a look at what is nicknamed The
Great Wall concept this big swooping
down section with a really high side of
the engine cover now that's not
something we're going to see on the
Mercedes this season at all but you are
going to to see it during the 2024 F1
season where are you going to see it
well where else than at Red Bull of
course Red Bull have adopted that exact
same Great Wall philosophy that Mercedes
trialed and ultimately dropped so let's
go and have a look at the brand new
Mercedes because that car in itself is
just absolutely fascinating here it is
in pre-season testing and I just want to
draw your attention again to the tip of
the nose of the car and you can see just
how different it truly is the shape of
the nose is fundamentally different on
the new car than it is to the old but
also from a structural point of view
it's worth noting that the nose only
connects to the second element of the
front wing and not the leading element
of the front Wing like it used to that's
something that's become a bit of a trend
amongst the teams up and down the grids
and it's something they all seem to have
copied from last year's Red Bull Red
Bull though have gone a completely
different direction and copied last
year's Mercedes well Mercedes have
decided to do their own thing well the
front wing of the Mercedes as well is
interesting for other reasons because
quite a lot of teams have noticed and
we've all noticed and commented on this
section of their front Wing the fourth
element of the wing such as it is F1
teams are allowed to have up to four
elements in their front Wing one two
three four but look at the outer element
of the front Wing it's pretty standard
in its shape all the way up to that
Central section where it's almost the
width of my little finger it barely
exists at all and to understand exactly
what's going on with that section of the
wing who better to talk to than the man
who created the car in the first place
James Allison the rules require that
that um that that any given flap so you
you can have four flaps that any given
flap element has to sort of go from the
tip of the wing to the to the to the
root of the wing and it can't stop
halfway so if you want if if you want a
flap say outboard on the wing but you
don't you don't really want it inboard
cuz you don't want the load that it's
going to provide inboard on the wing
then one way to cope with that is to
make that Wing much small that flap much
smaller in the place where you don't
really want it to be doing its thing and
the rules allow you to shrink the flap
down uh so we've just done that in quite
an extreme fashion so our flap is Broad
cord where we want it to be but then it
tapers away to a just sort little pencil
thick
uh in board moving backwards from that
Oho interesting front Wing the car
doesn't get any less boring the secret
weapons of Mercedes were teased were
trolled by the F1 team coming into its
launch they the Mercedes team issued
this 3D rendering of their new car and
usually when you see these 3D renderings
they're absolute nonsense they bear very
little similarity to the real F1 car at
all but have a look here at the front
suspension
we thought this was a rendering error we
thought it was a mistake by the team
they'd added in two rear legs of the
upper Wishbone and that's just silly
nobody's actually going to do that are
they well when we got to preseason
testing the third day of testing gave us
all a little bit of a surprise check
this out now we've talked a bit about
this already but I think it's worth
going a bit deeper into this so have a
look this is the top element of the
front Wishbone Arrangement that's the
leading element there but have a look at
the lower element of the front Wishbone
comes in and picks up on the bit of the
chassis just further rearwards and you
can see the angle between these two
parts here that's pretty clear pretty
standard nothing to write home about but
on the third day of testing Mercedes
turned up with something looking a
little bit different and it took a while
for anybody to notice that the car had a
fundamentally different front suspension
layout there's that same top element the
lead the forward arm of the upper
Wishbone no change in that but look at
the rear leg of the lower Wishbone the
angle is completely different it's
mounted much lower down now some people
thought oh well you can just adjust
these things you can mount things
differently make an adjustment
suspension on racing cars is always
adjustable but a change like that is
fundamental to the design of the monoco
the design of the chassis of the car to
change a part like that you'd normally
have to introduce a completely new
chassis or you'd have to have a big
insert into the side of the car that you
had to remove and put back in that would
add a huge amount of weight and in a era
where weight is all important that's
really confusing but when we took a
closer look at the car coming into the
bar Ranger on pre weekend a few Secrets
did get revealed and I have to pay
credit to Craig scarber for picking up a
little bit of this because if you have a
look at this plate that sits on the
inner edge of the chassis you can see
where that Wishbone pickup point is now
this is in the high position which
Mercedes opted to go with for this
weekend but underneath this single I
think it's pretty thin sheet of carbon
fiber there is actually a second pickup
Point molded into the side of the
chassis now this means it's a really
conscious decision from the Mercedes
team to be able to switch from this
upper position of the suspension to the
lower position just like that pre-season
rendering stated but to do that it's
undoubtedly going to add weight to the
structure of the monoco itself because
you can't just make a choice like this
and then just give up on it it is adding
weight to the car so they clearly were
unsure about the best position of the
suspension and will they switch between
it during the season well to explain a
little bit more about what they were
doing with this layout James Allison was
on hand in preseason testing to explain
to Lawrence beretto yeah we saw I think
today um our Tech analyst saw the front
suspension you were playing around with
like different positions of that I guess
that's what testing's for isn't it to
just try and see what what works and
what doesn't work so yeah I think
specifically you guys will have seen
that we were changing the anti-dive
level on the front suspension and uh
that's exactly the sort of change that
you really can't do between runs in free
practice sessions so um yeah useful to
get that done and get a get a bunch of
runs on it today compar to yesterday and
make our decisions fascinating stuff
there from James but let's hear what
formula 1's Chief technical officer pat
Simmons had to say about this concept
because I think when he looked at this
design in preseason testing his thoughts
were really really interesting yeah
intriguing that one isn't it because at
the launch it was sort of notice people
commented on it uh people thought it was
a rendering error or something like that
and uh yeah it's real life so uh I
haven't actually really had a a good
look at that yet um I guess my eye was
taken off the ball by the front Wing
hell of an innovation if it's what we
think it is yeah yeah absolutely but you
know I guess that they've done this
before with their steering system and
things so um you have to find all these
little nuances and when people say oh
the rules are so restrictive you know we
we can't be creative anymore rubbish you
can be and they are now continuing our
rearward tour through this brand new
Mercedes I thought we'd just stop off
quickly and have a look at the roll hoop
this is something I like to do because
the roll hoop is a big old piece of
engineering it's the highest point of
the car it's also has a big effect on
the center of gravity height and it can
have an impact on the weight
distribution of the car for Wards to
rear one of the points everybody's
talking about is the driver's head now
this isn't Lewis Hamilton's head here
it's one of the mechanics but the
cockpit and driver's head position is
further rearwards relative to the front
axle something Lewis Hamilton hated last
year was being sat far too close to the
front wheels that's been moved rearward
this year and that's something the team
have had to change now the roll hoop
itself is something that does look
pretty similar conceptually to all
recent Mercedes you've got this oval
airbox and this A-frame for the rollover
structure itself and then you've got
these kinked forward remote supports
there'll be some more supports
underneath the Bodywork back here
however this is something that all teams
have had to have modified coming into
this season because the regulations have
meant this structure needs to be a lot
stronger with new low tests coming in
from the top and the side and they have
to meet those new more stringent tests
so this has been redesigned
re-engineered and that I can't really
see how teams have been able to not make
these designs a bit heavier but they're
gonna have to make that trade-off
Elsewhere on the car now moving to the
rear of the car it's always good to take
a look at the car from behind and you
can see a few little details here of the
car that just a worth looking at but a
not you know groundbreaking stuff you've
got a double lower beam Wing that's
fairly standard that's something the
team will play around with the during
the season undoubtedly you got a
slightly dished rear wing but again it's
quite a big Wing again you're going to
see a lot of changes of that through the
season single rear pylon support little
bit of the cooling rear cooling you can
can see some of the outlets and you can
also see this very distinctive Ferrari
inspired gullied rear section that's
something Mercedes adopted partway
through last year and I've gone a bit
further with this year but they're still
not as Extreme as say Aston Martin or
Alpine in that concept of the car so
could they go a bit further looking
under the Bodywork there is a bit of
space to play with but looking at the
car from the rear is important because
the rear end of this Mercedes was the
real focus of James Allison and the
design team going year on year and to
EXP explain exactly what they were
focusing on well we asked the man
himself there are some specific things
that we wanted to make sure we got right
on this car we wanted to make sure that
the thing that both drivers have
complained about for a couple of years
which is that they don't trust the rear
end that and they turn in they're not
sure whether it's going to snap round on
them we wanted to cure that and that's
not an aerodynamic thing that's more of
a mechanical a mechanical thing making
sure that the rear suspension presents
the tires to the road in a predictable
way uh that doesn't get Disturbed as the
load changes on the rear now with all of
that focus on the rear end Mercedes did
opt to make a pretty fundamental choice
at the rear of the car switching from a
pull Rod rear suspension to a push rod
rear suspension design that's a really
big choice for the team and in order to
achieve that they had to make some
fundamental changes to the transmission
casing to explain exactly what they did
it's that man again it's James Ellison
well went to a push rod because uh we
were finding it quite constraining
having all of our inboard suspension the
springs and the dampers and the roll
bars packaging them inside the gearbox
casing which is where they have to
reside if you're using a pool Rod
because the pool Rod comes down and then
it joins up with all the Rockers and the
Springs low down in the car where it's
inside the gearbox switch to a push rod
you can get it on top of the box where
it's more accessible therefore brings
more opportunities to you in terms of
spring layouts and stuff so that's one
aspect of the change the more important
changes were uh just organizing the
wishbones and the track rod in such a
way as the uh suspension is much more uh
capable of keeping the rear axle pointed
in a good direction presenting the
contact patch to the road in an
effective way as the load comes on and
off the tires with speed changes and
with low changes as you go around
corners so all of those little changes
made to the Mercedes will add up and
make a big difference and it's amazing
how far the team have come since they
introduced this so-called zero pod side
pod concept all the way back at the
beginning of 2022 nobody really liked it
and it was introduced at Bahrain a few
teams have taken a look at it as we've
seen with Red Bull will they be able to
make it work later in the season if they
do I think it will be quite interesting
to see if the legacy of this car the
Mercedes w14 or it's this car the
Mercedes W5 concept it works out to be
the real winner when it gets out on
track