has been condom off and the media has
been shifted to one side and the Ed
officials shivangi the Ed officials have
entered inside we saw uh the logo of the
enforcement directorate in one of the
files that was being carried by one of
the officers so this is in regard to the
liquor gate and today the high court uh
in a judgment had refused the plea that
was put in by Mr Arn krial asking that
he should get relief from any coercive
action or arrest and after that plea was
denied we see enforcement directorate
coming here we know that Mr krial has
been skipping multiple summons by the
enforcement directorate there was a
heated uh you know argument today in
front of the court where Mr krial
Council abishek Manu singi went on and
asked that in what capacity is Mr krial
being summoned as the national Conor of
the arm army party as the chief minister
of Arin krial to which uh the additional
solicit general said that he is being
called as uh the person Mr Arin krial
and nobody is above the law even if he's
the chief minister of the national
capital and which is why uh the Delhi
Court after a detailed hearing rejected
The Plea of Mr Arn krial the chief
minister of the national capital and
just couple of hours after that after
the plea was rejected we see uh that uh
massive team of the enforcement
directorate has reached the uh the
residence of Mr Arin krial here in the
civiles area of the national capital we
see that the enforcement directorate
officials have gone inside uh Republic
TV is the only channel to be present on
ground and getting these exclusive
visuals uh from the residents of Mr Arin
kajri while we the only Channel over
here on the ground bringing you the
latest update for our viewers and these
exclusive visuals of enforcement d
dorate coming at the residence of Mr irn
krial you can see that a massive
deployment of the Delhi police officials
has been put over here uh the
barricading has been done the media has
been shifted at one side and the
enforcement directorate the officials of
the enforcement directorate have entered
the residence of the chief minister of
the national capital Mr Arin krial this
is after multiple summons have been sent
time and again for the past couple of
months to Mr krial to appear uh in front
of the enforcement directorate and
cooperate with the interrogation and
investigation uh in the liquor gate case
but we have seen that Mr Arn kajal has
been uh dubbing the entire investigation
in the liquor gate as Vendetta and has
been skipping the sermons we'll take you
back to the visuals over here remember
Republic TV is the only channel that is
present on the ground bringing these
exclusive visuals for viewers where the
enforcement directorate after the Delhi
High courts uh are High Court snubbed
The Plea that was uh uh that was moved
by Mr Arin krial seeking uh protection
from uh any coercive action specifically
arrest uh we have the team of the
enforcement directorate here at the
residence of Mr Arin kajal what's going
to happen we'll be bringing that for our
viewers as well but yes this is the
latest development the breaking at the
moment that enforcement directorate a
huge team of Mr of enforcement
directorate has reached the residence of
Delhi chief minister Mr Arin krial and
you can see that how the entire area has
been condoned off there's nobody seen on
the road over here at civiles where his
residence is and massive deployment of
the Delhi police uh over here in front
of the residents what's going to happen
next is yet to be seen but yes uh today
there was an important hearing where Mr
kajri wal put in a
bid to put in on the bed and now you can
see that there's a heavy deployment of
the police officials over here oh heavy
deployment of the police officials over
here the enforcement director team has
reached and they are inside we are
bringing you these visuals from outside
the residence of the chief minister
these are the exclusive visuals that
only Republic TV being on the ground in
front of the residence of Mr Arin krial
where the enforcement directorate has
arrived
we are showing you a 360Â° view of how
the entire area is being secured by the
Delhi police officials you can see that
uh there's the Convoy of the Delhi
police officials and
and and we see that how the police has
condoned off the entire area now we are
being uh joined by a senior editor
Shaban sen uh shaan the enforcement
directorate team has reached here at the
residence of Mr Arin krial and this is
happening just a couple of hours after
the high court rejected his flea that
sought protection from coercive action
shab well in fact we are now given to
understand that the enforcement director
team has gone in with the search warrant
this after no interim protection was
granted to Delhi chief minister Arvin
krial what cannot be denied at this
point in time that the enforcement
director will actually take a decision
on whether or not to take coercive
action against Arin K the reason being
because remember in the arguments that
were put forth by the enforcement
director in the Delhi High Court they
had made it abundantly clear that there
is no question of giving any sort of
verbal Assurance with regards to interim
protection to be granted uh to Arvin
krial remember he hasn't complied with
about nine summons that were sent out by
the enforcement directed pertaining to
the lior cam they were asking Arin krial
to explain whether at all his party has
received allegedly received Kickbacks in
the liquor scam running into crores of
rupees this was what they said proceeds
of crime that was generated from the
liquor scam over a period of two years
put together remember in the
investigation that has been carried out
so far several arrests have been made
but the key takeaways from the
investigation is this number one with
regards to the first statement that was
recorded by the enforcement directorate
that was of accused sabir mahindru it is
he who in his statement made the first
mention of Arvin krial saying that there
was a FaceTime call between Arvin krial
and Vijay n along with sair Mahindra
where Vijay n communication manager was
introduced to him as his boy the second
statement was recorded of a witness in
this particular case that is ysrcp
maguna Rd maguna Redd in his statement
to made a similar assertion that there
were meetings that took place with Arin
krial and the blessings were actually
given by Arvin krial with regards to the
draft policy remember the draft policy
also the changes that were brought into
the exchange of those documents took
place at the residence of the chief
minister that is the reason why they say
that the chief minister was actually
well aware of the fact that these
changes that were brought into the draft
into the excise
policy the
group
once
again third aspect is with regards to
the fact that whether at all the party
actually
received Goa election because remember
an outdoor advertising company received
money in cash which the
enforcement is the money that was
received during the leakers scam and was
utilized for the Goa election
campaigning not just Goa election
campaigning they also suspected that
money was actually used in the Punjab
elections and as the national convenor
of the party it is Arvin
krial funds and to explain how did they
actually received the fund believe the
large amount of the transactions taken
place but was also recorded by
the
and the fact that there are witnesses
who have taken the name of Arin krial
including the accused that is the reason
why time and again the enforcement
director has been maintaining that it is
important that Arvin krial actually
join and you see what is it that the
sitting chief minister has to say about
the summons that were issued to all
these basically said that these are sums
which are illegal in nature only because
the enforcement directed not tell Arin
krial whether at all he was being called
in as a suspect or as a witness in this
particular case once again this happens
to be the prerogative of the agency
whether or not to inform the person if
he's being called as a suspect or as a
witness all right let's go to Madura as
well Mima is joining us live right now
Mima take us through exactly uh you know
what is happening right now now the
raids are happening at kiva's home that
is what we are learning of raids are
happening searches are happening do we
have any inside details about what could
possibly be happening
inside well shangi remember that this is
an investigation in the liquor gate and
multiple multiple leaders of the arm
admy party along with the workers of the
arm admy party have already been
arrested and are
and are behind the bars and remember
that their detailed interrogation has
already happened and now the Crux of it
needs to be kept in front of Mr krial
and which is why he has been skipping
the summons and today after the high
court had given that order of cohesive
action uh against uh Mr krial we have
enforcement directorate over here
conducting searches at the residence of
Mr uh Arn krial and now for how long
will this begin we'll have to wait and
watch but uh Republic TV is the only
Channel over here on the ground bringing
you these exclusive visuals you can see
that the amount uh that that that the
size of uh the deployment of the police
officials over here request my camera
person to just show you around that
heavy deployment of the Delhi police
officials over here in front of the
residence of Mr arjin Arn kri while it
is just some half an hour back that all
of a sudden there was a massive Convoy
par in front of the residents of Mr Arin
krial and out of those cars came out
enforcement directorate officials along
with uh you know uh along with many
Delhi police officials and these are the
exclusive visuals that we are bringing
uh for viewers as you can see that this
Convoy the number of cars that are
standing here or are parked here are of
uh the enforcement directorate and Delhi
police officials and looking at the
seriousness we see you see that how the
barricading of the entire area has been
done in front of the residents of Mr
Arin kajri while what needs to be seen
here is that the news is tightening
around the chief Minister's neck over
here because uh even if uh we go back to
the hearing that happened today uh it
was submitted by the enforcement
directorate that they have enough
evidence and that which is why they have
been sending multiple summons to the
Chief Minister but he's been skipping
them and today we have the enforcement
director at the doors of Mr Arin krial
and the searches are happening the
enforcement directorate is going to scr
uh through the residence uh for any
evidence may it be hard or may it be
digital so all that will be scrunched
and ComEd out by the enforcement
directorate on the basis of the previous
investigation and then interrogation of
multiple people who've been even
arrested and have been interrogated in
the liquor gate so we'll have to wait
and watch as to what really happens for
how long uh this uh entire search uh
continues but yes this is a massive
development taking in the national
capital and the News tightening around
Mr Arn krial the chief minister of uh
the chief minister of Delhi and the
national Conor of the arm admi party uh
now the arm admy party has been dubbing
the entire investigation of the liquor
gate as Vendetta but the enforcement
directorate uh has uh has abundantly
clear and has kept it in front of the co
Court as well that they have enough
evidence against Mr krial and which is
why these summons are being sent which
have been regularly skipped by Mr krial
but today uh in a massive development we
have enforcement directorate coming here
reaching at the residence of uh the
Delhi chief minister they've gone inside
it's been uh over 30 minutes it's been
around 45 minutes to be precise shivangi
that the enforcement directorate reached
her uh at the residence of uh the Delhi
chief minister taking you back to the
visuals as you can see that the
deployment of the Delhi police officials
is heavy the barricading has been done
the entire area has been gone off
nobody's seen on the road looking at the
seriousness of the matter the
enforcement directorate officials uh
there was a massive team of around 10
people that reached here at the
residence of the chief minister you can
see that uh this these visuals that we
are bringing is of the Bungalow of the
chief minister Mr Arin krial here at the
Civil area of the national capital
and
my
Lord fa
set
breing
new
BP
they have done nothing
wrong getting in breaking news and the
pictures of the enforcement director
team at Arin kajal's residence we have
the first pictures coming in Republic TV
on the ground we are tracking the
situation live from outside Arin kajal's
Delhi residence our reporters are live
on the field you're looking at the first
pictures those are the first pictures of
the heavy police presence at Delhi K
ral's residence I'm also getting getting
across my colleague abishek kapor
joining us live uh hours after hours
after hours after he was denied any
relief abishek and shaan abishek he's
been raided by the enforcement
directorate he ducked at least nine
summons uh shaan is also live shaan
what's the is this a raid is this a
search are they just handing him another
summon what's going
on well in fact a short while back the
confirmation that we got from our
sources is that the searches would also
be carried out but as I understand uh
that they would be also carrying the
warrant along with them for the searches
to be carried out uh in all likelihood
there's also possibility that they would
be issuing yet another suburn if at all
if at all the searches do not heeld much
result remember both the options are
essentially open at this point in time
this is being monitored by the top
officers here in the national capital
this comes in after a decision that was
basically taken by the legal team of the
enforcement directorate that there were
scathing remarks that were actually made
by the Delhi High Court which would
effectively mean there was there was no
there was no interum protection that was
granted to Arvin krial to begin with
which essentially means that he has to
appear before the enforcement director
and also just to put this into
perspective he was actually asked to
appear today by the enforcement director
so the nth suon that was actually sent
to Arin krial was asking him to appear
before the agency today but armb party
has been maintaining that since the
matter is subj and the fact that this
was coming up before the high court
there is no question why kri should be
basically respond to the summons that
have been sent out now without any
protection remember there is a
possibility to that the enforcement
director could actually take the
decision of taking a coercive action in
this entire matter because they also
believe that somewhere down the line he
has not been cooperating uh despite
multiple opportunities being given to
the chief minister to explain his
position as well as his party's position
on the allegations that have been
leveled against him and his
party we're taking the live pictures
we're hearing that they presented a
search warrant that they presented a
search warrant Shaban those are the
details available with us that they have
a search warrant with them uh is is is
kajal's arrest possible is that a
possibility
today okay okay I'm I'm going across to
abishek as well abishek I think shaan is
is on another call uh abishek they the
Ming moving the Supreme Court the Ming
moving the Supreme Court
uh
abish I'm getting in some more breaking
news updates right now I'm getting in
some more breaking news updates right
now armad party is mulling moving the
Supreme Court this is the breaking news
update that I have right now the
enforcement directorate team is at Arin
kajal's residence to serve summons in
the excise policy case we're hearing
that they there to serve summons uh some
reports suggesting that there's also a
warrant and uh we have some more details
coming in as the enforcement director
team reaches the Delhi Chief Minister's
residence uh this is shortly after the
high court refused to Grant him
protection from coercive action in an
excise policy linked moneya laundering
case and uh they say that the agency
officials went to Cal's residence to
serve him summons in the case and uh
this was hours after a bench of justices
Suresh Kumar K and Mano Jan of the Delhi
High Court refused to Grant krial any
protection from coercive action in the
case the bench had listed the Amad Party
leaders application for further
consideration on the 22nd of April when
his main petition challenging the
summons is fixed for hearing and asked
the enforcement directorate to file its
response I'm getting in some more
breaking news update right now all
Senior amadm Party leaders have been
called to the amadm party office another
breaking news update coming in
all all senior leaders of the Amad party
have been called to the party office
right now that's the other breaking that
we getting in right
now all right let me see if I have shaan
back with me right now shaan with me
right now let me see if shaan is back
shavan can you hear
[Music]
me mad is also joining us from the
location madua the update hearing that
they're going to move the Supreme Court
all leaders call to the Amad party
office will he be
[Music]
arrested well yes absolutely nanjan all
the senior leaders of the arm admy party
the entire top rung of the arm admy part
is now rushing to their uh their main
party office in the national capital
their headquarters after the enforcement
directorate reached the residence of the
Delhi chief minister we are bringing
these exclusive visuals we have S
bharadwaj nanjan we have Sor bharadwaj
here at the residence of the Delhi chief
minister these are the exclusive visuals
only available on Republic TV right now
nanjan we're the only team on the ground
and we have Delhi Minister s bharadwaj
that has re that has reached uh the
residence of the Delhi chief minister s
s bharadwaj is here uh to extend support
to Delhi chief minister as we know that
a senior editor shavan Sen pointed out
that the enforcement directorate has
reached the residence of arn kajri while
with the search warrant will there be an
arrest or not that that that's a
decision that will be taken later but
yes we see that there's this car out of
which Mr Sor badage is going to go
inside Sor bharadwaj is already here at
the residence of Delhi chief minister
Arin krial and like you pointed out
they're all mulling uh to approach the
Supreme Court after the high court today
rejected The Plea that was put in by Mr
Arin kajri while seeking protection from
coercive action nanjan so we have Sor
bhadwad Delhi Minister over here at the
residence of Delhi chief minister Arin
krial as the enforcement directorate
reached about an hour ago with a massive
team inside with search warrant search
happening inside the residence of Erin
krial heavy deployment of the Delhi
police officials over here barricading
done it's a serious matter and this has
has come after Mr Arin krial continue to
skip all the summons and just we just
heard a political editor telling us that
the T suon has also been uh given to Mr
Arn kajri while we have to wait and
watch as to what would be the next
course of action of the enforcement
directorate but we have S of bharadwaj
over here uh outside the residence of Mr
Arwin krial Delhi Minister reaches here
to extend support to the party National
convenor Arin krial the enforcement
director a team of enforcement
directorate has reached the resident
about an hour ago we have seen that how
the Delhi High Court had rejected The
Plea seeking protection from the
coercive action and like you pointed out
that the senior leaders some of them are
reaching here some of them are reaching
at the party office all hands on deck to
protect their leader that could face an
action we'll have to wait and watch as
to what would be the C of action that
would be taken by the enforcement
directed but yes at the moment nanjan
the searches are on the team of in
enforcement directorate after the high
court order couple of just uh uh two to
three hours after the order has reached
the residence of Mr Arin krial there was
a massive Convoy of the enforcement
directorate being aided by the Delhi
police officials that reached about an
hour ago and after that we saw a little
conversation between the enforcement
directorate officials and the security
here at the chief Minister's residents
and after that they went inside and ever
since then the searches are on we see
the Del minister S badw at the residence
of the chief minister we'll see that if
he'll be allowed to go inside or not but
yes uh the top leaders of the arm admy
party rushing towards the residence of
the arm admi party uh Chief arind krial
as the enforcement directorate has
reached the residence of the chief
minister and this is in in connection
with the lia gate we'll have to wait and
watch as to what would be the end of it
but yes we see the massive deployment
all the top rung of uh the am admy party
is shook uh and they are mulling to
approach the Supreme Court like you
rightly pointed out that sources are
telling us the party office is also a
buzz with the senior leaders reaching
there some of them reaching there to put
all HS on deck and to chalk out the next
course of action and the one of the
ministers s bharadwaj has reached here
outside the residence of of uh of Mr Arn
krial so what's going to happen next
we'll have to wait and watch but yes
this is the big breaking at the moment
and with Republic TV only being on the
ground only Channel being on the ground
we are bringing these exclusive visuals
over here for viewers the entire area
the entire Lane has been condoned off
the B heavy barricading done uh around
this entire area it has been enveloped
by Delhi police officials and we have
sorab badw here outside the residence of
Delhi chief minister nanjan we can see
that how the entire area has been
enveloped by uh the he heavy deployment
of the Delhi police officials it was
just an hour back when the enforcement
directorate Convoy reached here at the
steps of uh uh the residence of the
Delhi chief minister and after that we
see that there is uh there is a lot of
commotion uh within the ranks of the am
admi party nanjan uh all senior leaders
rushing to the national headquarters
there uh at the itto in the national
capital and where the rest of them are
reaching here at the residence the first
one being Mr Sor bharadwaj that has
reached the residence of Delhi chief
minister Arwin krial raids Happening
Here uh as our senior editor shavan send
apprised uh viewers that this they have
come with a search warrant search are
happening there for evidence both in
digital and in black and white and
remember that this is coming after
multiple people have already been
arrested in uh the liquor gate case
multiple investigations have already
happened the enforcement directorate
today had apprised the Delhi high court
that they have enough uh enough uh
evidence against uh Mr Arin krial and
that they would not need any support and
to arrest him uh however the council for
Mr Arin krial kept on dubbing this
entire investigation as motivated and
Vendetta but here we are at in front of
the residence of Mr arind kajal where
the where a team of enforcement
directorate has reached uh uh now we
have to wait and watch as to what
happens after this but yes this is a big
breaking in coming in and Republic TV
Nan I repeat is the only Channel present
here in front of the chief Minister's
resident giving you exclusive visuals of
uh Mr Arin kajal uh facing the heat of
uh enforcement directorate there are
around five to six officials that have
gone inside uh the residence of Mr Arin
krial of representing the enforcement
directorate like Mr uh like our uh uh
senior editor uh s sir would you like to
say something Sir Mr badw would you like
to make a comment so there is Mr
bharadwaj not willing to comment and
waiting outside the residents of uh Arin
krial uh and speaking to the police
officials because he has been denied
entry I suppose because he's been
standing here for quite some time for
some around uh 7 to 10 minutes but he
has not been allowed to go inside we
have we've been also cornered uh to uh
one side of the road in front of the
chief Minister's residence but there we
have on our visuals exclusive visuals
that we bringing for our viewers nanjan
uh Mr Sor bharadwaj over here uh trying
to go inside uh the chief Minister's
residence uh but uh the police officials
I believe have denied him an entry uh
that's why he's standing outside on the
road speaking to them trying to convince
them uh to let him inside but the
enforcement directorate officials are
inside and they're conducting searches
coming out the residents uh for uh uh
for what they would want
sir what would you like to say about the
searches
Sir Mr
bhadwad sir sir sir sir any comments
sir so he is being silent he's being
silent at the moment nanjan he's not
saying anything as he's U pris of the
situation uh sir sir sir do you know why
the enforcement directorate is
there sir did you know that the
enforcement director team is going to
come
here so he he's lending us a deaf year
he's lending us a deaf year he's lending
us a deaf here over here nanjan he's not
responding with his back with his back
over here s sir would you like to
comment did you have any idea the arm
army Party leaders did they have any
idea that the enforcement directorate
would be coming just a couple of hours
after the high court rejected the
protection sir so we see Mr bharadwaj
here is uh walking away
and uh not uh giving any
statement uh though he's standing
outside the residence of uh the chief
minister uh where the enforcement
directorate officials it's been uh over
one and a half around an hour and a half
that they went inside that they went
inside and the searches are on as our
senior editor shaan pointed out that
they have they have come with a search
warrant at the residence because uh uh
remember the that uh multiple summons
have already been sent out uh to uh Mr
Arin kajri balal but he has been
skipping them time and again calling it
Vendetta and motivated now we'll have to
wait and watch as to what really happens
out here but yes nanjan these are the
exclusive visuals of uh of uh the Ed
officials and the Delhi police
deployment happening after the
enforcement directorate has gone inside
and is conducting searches at the
residence of the Delhi chief minister Mr
Arn krial and we can see that there's
Panic on the faces of the top rung of
the arm admy party we have Mr s badw in
front of us but yes he's being he he
chooses to remain tight lied he's going
to speak he's going to speak we'll take
him
on
but
so we just heard we just heard Mr sorab
bharadwaj here Delhi Minister saying
that he is apprehensive of the fact that
Delhi chief minister could be arrested
tonight uh he's confirmed on our camera
that raids are being conducted inside
the residence of the Delhi chief
minister and they are apprehensive of
the fact that he could be arrested later
today so we'll take you
back so we we see that these visuals
from here exclusive visuals nanjan that
we are bringing in so uh you know Mr
bharadwaj here Mr bharadwaj here said
that uh um Mr krial could be arrested
later tonight nanjan what do you think
is is on the cards uh from from now as
the uh it's been over an hour and a half
that the enforcement directorate reached
here at the residence uh of uh the Delhi
Chief Del Minister amadm party leader s
badw has uh arrived at kajal's residen
you just heard him speak there
enforcement director team is at kajal's
residence for questioning Arin kajal's
team is seeking an urgent Hearing in the
Supreme Court they're going to knock on
the doors of the Supreme Court he's
going to move the Supreme Court today
itself is what we are hearing and this
comes after Delhi High Court refus to
Grant any interim protection from
coercive action legal team is making an
attempt to seek an urgent listing and
hearing on the matter they're trying to
get a get a get an urgent hearing from
the Supreme Court today itself he's
being raided Ed teams there with search
warrants senior leaders of the amadm
party claiming that they've not been
allowed to enter Arin kajal's residence
uh some of the senior leaders there on
your screen right now that's s BW other
leaders as well Gathering outside the
residents without any permission they
don't have permission to get inside and
they've been stopped is what they claim
and they're waiting outside as the
enforcement director team 7 to eight
officers of the enforcement director
team and Senior officers senior most
officers of enforcement directorate are
inside Arin kajal's residence as we
speak so this is a breaking news update
we're nonstop live from outside from
outside Arin kall's home you're looking
at the pictures from outside Arin kall's
home all senior leader arm admy Party
leaders have been called uh to the am
admy party headquarters we are told am
admi party has moved the Supreme Court
they have moved the Supreme Court and
they're hoping for an urgent listing
urgent
hearing this is after the enforcement
director team informed Delhi chief
minister Arin krial staff that it has
search warrant against him in the excise
policy case so they are raiding they are
raiding Arin krial they are searching
Arin krial over the liquor scam liquor
scam heat on Arvin krial as we speak at
the enforcement directorate team is at
his residence those are live pictures
from right outside Arin kajal's home
that's a live shot a live shot of senior
Amad Party leaders lining out outside
Arin
kajal's
residence there's a possibility that uh
he's also been served another summon
we're not really sure as of this minute
they're inside and uh they will they
will they have a search warrant with
them they have a search
warrant and this is after the high court
earlier today refused to Grant
protection from coercive action in the
liquor scam in the excise policy linked
moneya laundering case we're getting in
some more breaking news updates that
there are at least five petitions filed
in the Supreme Court by the am admi
party
team s bhadwad is also speaking live let
me go across to him he's speaking
live
Ed
Ed
communication
AR
AR
or
Mr bhadwad what would be your next step
so we had uh we have Mr s bharadwaj over
here asserting that uh the uh prime
minister is afraid of Mr krial and and
hence uh this entire uh that the raids
that are happening this he he's dubbing
it as Vendetta over here and uh this was
an exclusive bite to us where Mr
bharadwaj said uh that this is nothing
but Vendetta so we'll have to wait and
watch as to what really happens here
nanjan but yes uh but yes uh the
enforcement directorate officials are
here just a couple of hours after the
high court rejected to provide Mr krial
any protection from arrest
nanan those the live shots you can still
see Amad party Minister s badw that
outside the residence of Arin krial all
top leaders of the aadmi party have been
called some of them gathering at the
Amad party office some coming to the
residence of Arin krial and those are
live pictures he's uh he's in big
trouble he's uh he's evaded nine summons
so far and Ami Party leaders say that
they haven't been able to communicate
they haven't been able to communicate
with Arin krial but what we know is that
there are multiple petitions multiple
petitions in front of the Supreme Court
right now they've knocked on the doors
of the Supreme Court asking for
intervention asking for intervention as
the enforcement director team lands up
at his residence with search warrants
and uh arm admi party claiming of course
like they have been ever since the first
subon that the plan is to arrest kage
Amad the party leaders even as the
enforcement director team is inside AR
kajal's resident saying that there is a
possibility of the arrest of Arin kajal
anytime now so we are staying with these
live pictures my colleague shaan is also
on the phone line let me see if shaan is
on the phone line if he's there I'll try
and get across an update from him on
what the enforcement directorate is
doing what their plan could be the next
course of action my colleague abishek
Kapur also in the national capital as we
get you a live shot that's a live shot
from the Republic TV cameras outside
Arin krial residence shaan what's the
update Shaban what's the update is this
a search is this a raid uh is are they
are they present there to give him
summons what's going on or arrested
well well n updates that I'm picking up
right now from my sources we can put
this out for our viewers I'm given to
understand that while the searches are
already underway the enforcement
director team will be questioning chief
minister arvind krial in fact my sources
are indicating that a join director
level rank officer has also reached the
residence of uh the chief minister these
are the latest details that are
beginning right now with regards to the
questioning of arvind
krial n I'm just getting more updates
from my sources if you can just continue
for a bit I'm just putting out more
details it turns out that the Searchers
have already begun and the
question shaan shaan shaan okay shaan go
ahead shaan go ahead take that call take
that call shaan take that call shaan is
getting uh minute by minute updates
we're getting you the live shot from
outside Adin kajal's residence we're
getting you the live updates straight
from our sources in the enforcement
direct we have the inside information of
the legal strategy of Arin krial they've
gone to the supreme court hearing that
at least three petitions could have been
filed in the Supreme Court I can't
confirm that but there are at least
three petitions asking for an urgent
hearing asking for a possible midnight
hearing asking the Supreme Court to open
up its doors to Arin krial who by the
way has evaded summons nine times has
faced several setbacks in different
courts including the Delhi high court
this morning and he's knocking on the
doors of the Supreme Court now all eyes
of the Supreme Court I'm also getting in
details of uh the ranks of officers
involved in this particular search I'm
calling it a search because we're
hearing there's a search warrant I'm not
calling it a raid we don't know whether
they are there to arrest him but if you
are asking us whether there is a
possibility of Arin kajal's arrest yes
that is possible Arin krial and the am
admi party team trying to get a stay on
Arin kajal's possible arrest trying to
get a stay on possible arrest Ed's
questioning has begun we hearing
enforcement directorate questioning Arin
krial even as he goes knocking on the
doors of different courts knocking on
the doors of different courts
enforcement directorate has begun
questioning Arin kids that's a
confirmation that I'm getting in right
now that the enforcement directorate is
questioning Arvin kajal at his residence
as the barricading that you see there
the barricading is complete there are
more and more leaders of the aadmi party
Gathering outside kajal's residence and
they're all in a huddle there are two
simultaneous strategies for the am ADI
party right now the legal strategies to
go to the Supreme Court and ask for
Relief and the political strategy to
gather their carers to ga their leaders
and some of them already been summoned
called to the arm admy party
headquarters and uh some of them rushing
to Arin kajal's residence the leaders at
Arvin kajal's residence saying that they
haven't been able to contact Arin kial
that's obvious because he's being
questioned by the enforcement
directorate some of them saying that
they fear arrest and saying that uh this
is this is a strategy by the BJP of
course the same old the same old lines
being repeated the political line of the
amadm party has been that
this is a strategy of the BJP to try and
limit Arin
quesal in Delhi and in Punjab getting
into more details right now shaan
confirming right now shaan is confirming
right now Arin kajal is being questioned
a joint director rank officer a joint
director rank officer has reached
kajal's residence two senior officers
part of the investigation are at Arin
kajal's residence in the liquor scam in
the excise policy money laundering case
excise policy money laundering case
questioning will be done by an
investigative officer searches and
questioning I repeat searches and
questioning of the chief minister is
happening simultaneously as we speak so
this is a very very critical night for
Arin kial it's been a it's been a scary
scary last few days for him in the
courts he faced setback after setback
after he decided to evade summons not
once not twice not three times four
times five times as many as nine times
right now and the enforcement
directorate on his tail they're on his
tail and seven to eight of them are
inside the residence of Arin kival
questioning him some are questioning him
and some are searching his residence
that's a confirmation that I have that's
a life shot life shot from the Republic
TV cameras Republic TV Republic bat
Republic banga Republic Canada all four
channels outside the residence of Arin
krial searches and quizzing
simultaneously happening and all of that
just just before the elections of
2024 in the national capital Arin kajal
has struck a deal with the congress
party he won't be fighting alone
allocating a few seats to the congress
party but this is going to have
electoral electoral impact for Arin
krial more than political strategy for
2024 his team is busy now with legal
strategy shaan shaan what's the plan
what's the plan what's going on
inside information now coming in from
Top sources that two c officers are part
of the investigation they have also
reach the residence of the chief
minister seares are already underway
just to explain the process of what's
really happening right now the
enforcement directorate team led by
joint director rank officer along with
him an assistant director Bank officer
they have entered the chief Minister's
residence with a search warrant so the
search has already begun now remember if
at all any recovery is actually made uh
immediately thereafter an explanation is
basically sought from the person
concerned this particular matter it is
Arin krial he will have to basically
explain while the searches are underway
for instance if any particular material
is seized by the enforcement director
that explanation will also be taken or
sought from the from the person
concerned that is the chief minister
remember this is a little different than
what would have happened when K would
have gone to the enforcement
directorates headquarters where his
statement is recorded under Section 50
of the pmla act that is different than
what's currently happening as we speak
because the searches are on and
explanation is basically sof from the
chief minister now with regards to
whether at all the enforcement directed
will take any coercive action remember
that is a decision that
perhaps
AR
shaan is it the first time that he's
actually being questioned they called
him he didn't respond to the summons
they've gone to his residence and he the
first time that he's been questioned is
is is that is that correct is that
factually
correct well that's absolutely right
this is for the first time that Arvin
krial is being questioned by the
enforcement director
the previous appearance that he had made
that was before the Central Bureau of
Investigation remember there he was
called in as a witness in this entire
matter and his statement was recorded by
the Central Bureau of Investigation this
is quite different than what we saw the
last time when he had appeared before
the CBI because in this particular case
the enforcement director has gone a step
further they have come on record in the
the remand notice in the remand copy
that was accessed by Republic TV during
k remand they had categorically made a
mention of the fact that kav along with
the chief minister of Delhi and the then
deputy chief minister Manish sodia had
orchestrated the lia Scamp they had come
on record to say that tweeted this in a
statement a day after and the statement
was released to the public and in which
once again they made a mention that this
was a deal that was orchestrated by
krial and K Kavita this is for the the
first time that the searches are also
being carried out at the residence of
the chief minister it's a sitting chief
minister whose residence the enforcement
directorate is carrying out the searches
while the searches are underway his
statement is also being recorded but the
statement that is recorded is procedural
in nature because remember any item that
is seized by the enforcement directorate
and explanation is essentially sought by
the agency and that's exactly what is
happening as we speak right now slipping
into a short pick we continue with this
big Development coming in from the
national capital where the chief
minister is being questioned by the
enforcement
director Ami has been ranked India's
number one private university for the
11th year by India Today a testimony to
Ami's worldclass education whilst
imbibing values and suncar in
students
[Music]
at
[Applause]
all right viers getting some big
breaking updates coming in right now
John director records kial statement
that is right big back toback updates
coming in lot of hectic activity outside
kjas residence and uh we're flashing the
latest for you on the screens and not
just that what you see on your screen is
the latest coming in there's lot of snal
nearing outside kivas residents I repeat
a lot of slogan nearing outside kad's
residence and those are the visuals
coming in those are the visuals coming
in viewers of what is happening outside
kijas residents and uh a very very big
update uh coming in because we just told
you a short while back that after Delhi
High Court just hours after that had
refused to Grant relief to Delhi CM Arin
kial in the LI the Ed had officials
there have reached uh his residence and
their searches being carried out a team
also informed the staff at the cm's
residence that it had a search warrant
the kg legal team has a petition in the
Supreme Court challenge ing the high
Court's order meanwhile what you see on
your screens is a huge deployment at The
cm's Residence at the time of filing uh
in fact what we see right now a lot of a
lot of uh police presen is right outside
and Republic TV was the first one to be
on ground and to get you the fastest
updates I just want to go to madua right
now madua you know Republic TV was the
first to get all our viewers the first
and exclusive images what is happening
where you are we see that the police
deployment and the security deployment
is getting bigger and bigger by the
minute well absolutely shivangi Republic
TV was the only channel to be on the
ground at the time the enforcement
directorate reached here at the
residence of Delhi chief minister irin
krial and in fact we are the only
channel here on the ground as well at
the present as well because all others
have been denied entry and we are
bringing these exclusive vision ual for
our viewers in front of the residence of
Delhi chief minister where the
enforcement directorate officials are
conducting searches and what our sources
are telling us that the investigating
officer uh in this entire matter there
are two senior officials what our
sources are telling us are inside the
residence of Delhi chief minister Arn
krial and he is also being questioned
remember Mr Sor badw the Delhi minister
the Delhi Minister had uh told us uh in
this in that exclusive conversation that
he had uh where he said that Mr CRA W's
cell phone the cell phone of his OSD
advisor his family all of their cell
phones who all are inside the residents
are Switched Off and are not reachable
so they are apprehensive of the fact
that there could be a cohesive action
and Mr krial could be arrested but that
for that we'll have to wait and watch
but yes that could be on the cards but
as of now what our sources are
confirming us that yes questioning of uh
Mr krial is happening there are two
senior officials that are doing so
search warrants they had search warrants
as well and these are the visuals that
we are bringing you from o outside the
residence of Delhi chief minister Arn
krial you can see that these are the
exclusive visuals how the entire area
has been enveloped with heavy deployment
of the Delhi police officials the entire
area has been barricaded and on of uh
Delhi Minister Sor bharadwaj was here he
continued to speak to multiple officials
over here but then he was denied entry
uh he spoke to the media twice asserting
that this is nothing but Vendetta but
we've seen that it's been a long battle
and multiple arrests have been made uh
in this lior gate but these are the
visuals I'll go back once again to the
visuals over here because shivangi we
are the only channel on the spot
bringing the the exclusive visual we've
been there uh since the time the Delhi
police officials uh came back some an
hour and a half almost 2 hours back and
ever since then the officials have been
inside it took them a couple of minutes
to go after uh a a brief discussion with
the security over here at the chief
Minister's residence uh the enforcement
directorate officials went inside and
ever since then they have been there and
what our sources are telling us that the
chief minister is being questioned by
the invest ating officer there are two
senior officials present uh in the pack
of the enforcement directorate officials
that are inside let me take you back to
the visuals as uh Republic TV only be
with me bear with me I'm getting in some
breaking news right now getting in some
breaking news right now that the
enforcement director wants to take krial
to Enforcement directorate office Ed
wants to take krial to the Enforcement
directorate
office kival says no question me at the
chief Minister's residence that's the
breaking news update coming in
enforcement directorate keen on taking
krial to the Enforcement directorate
office but kial says no question me
right here he says question me in the
chief Minister's residence
itself that's the breaking news update
trouble mounting for Arin krial the
first time that he's been questioned by
the enforcement director in the liquor
scam evaded summons did not respond to
summons nine times but refused to appear
Ed team decided to go to his residence
to question him they want to take krial
to the Ed office that's the breaking
news update coming in and he has refused
to he has refused to go to the Ed office
saying that they should question him at
the residence itself that's the breaking
news update that I'm getting in right
now and he's uh unwilling unwilling to
be taken to the Ed office even as he
continues to remain inside his residents
as of this minute krial is challenging
the enforcement
directorate krial is challenging the
enforcement
directorate challenging the enforcement
directorate even now when they are at
his residence does not want to be taken
to the Ed office defiant even now he's
challenging the enforcement directorate
I'm getting in some more breaking news
right now Arin krial in fact I'm getting
in more breaking news right now another
Ed team I repeat another enforcement
directorate team
has reached Arin kajal's residence
another Ed team has reached Arin kajal's
residence I'm getting in every every
second every minute there's an update
coming in on the Arwin kial versus
enforcement direct with story named by
the agencies look at those pictures live
pictures on your screen of more officers
of more deployment of more security
measures being taken outside Arin
kajal's residence more officers coming
in there the live pictures more officers
now called in confirmation also from
Madura Madura let's go back to the
pictures let's stay with the pictures
let's stay with the pictures stay with
the pictures of the cars moving into
Arin K's residence there you see more
officers getting off the cars getting
inside the residence we had uh news that
7 to eight officers were there but more
and more officers now entering Arin
kajal's residence they've gone inside
now officers of enforcement directorate
more in number as we speak two more cars
just rolling in to kajal's residence and
they've just entered madua is there
madua is getting us a live report that's
a live shot live shot of the officers
entering we have a life shot the
paramilitary forces the police included
have cordoned off the entire area the
entire area around Arin kajal's
residence has been barricaded and uh
none of them have been allowed including
aadmi Party leaders to try and go
anywhere close to those Gates it's a for
fortified situation there it's a
fortress Arin K's residence has been
fortified by security and uh more
officers have now been called in as he
openly challenges the enforcement
director openly challenging the
enforcement directorate after skipping
nine summons and after getting a setback
in the court today the Delhi High Court
did not give him any reprieve and he's
now being questioned by the enforcement
directorate in the national capital
another sound bite coming in let's cut
across
live
s BW there s BW of thead party Delhi
Delhi Minister Delhi Minister Amad party
leader s badw just giving a one line
response there what did he say there mad
quickly what did he say
there well Nan he said that Arin krial
is not a person but the thought and this
is nothing but Vendetta once again once
again again the minister of the Delhi
government s bharadwaj crying foul after
two more cars loaded with uh Ed
officials and paramilitary forces these
are the exclusive visuals that we are
bringing you can see that paramilitary
forces there in front uh of the
residents of Mr Arin krial over here
security deployment has been beefed up
even more nanan so now this has uh
really uh tensed the Minister who is
inside here waiting outside in his car
Mr Sor bharadwaj and as soon as those
two cars filled with the Ed officials
arrived here at the residence of the
chief minister he came and spoke to the
media and said that uh uh mrin krial is
invincible and they're going to continue
the fight so we'll have to wait and
watch as what really happens nanjan but
as of now the Ed is upping the ant more
officials over here along along with the
par paramilitary forces outside Mr Arn
kajal's residence we see more Del
official looking at the rapid action
force be with me
Madura be with me be with me rapid
action force the RAF present outside the
residence of Arin krial the Delhi chief
minister those are live pictures you
look at them there even the security
presence outside Delhi Chief Minister's
residence has increased in the last few
minutes it's increased in the last few
minutes paramilitary forces outside
Arvin kajal's home
and uh more and more amadm Party leaders
speaking to the media you saw sh badw
there s badw has been camping there
amadm Party leaders have been asked to
come to Arin kajal's residence by the
way Madura said that and and our
correspondent Madura who's outside the
residence of Arin kajal said
that s bwat said that krial is not a
person he's a thought kajal is not a
person but he's a thought I've heard
that before krial is not a person he's a
thought he's still a mort he's in he's
still an Indian citizen who will have to
face the law like any other Indian
citizen suon nine times has challenged
evaded been defined in front of the
agencies which have said on record by
the way they've said on record that he
was a
beneficiary of a kickback in the liquor
scam it's a 100 CR Kickback that
agencies have put on paper in their
response to the court
and aishi also spoke to the media we
have more and more aami party leaders
speaking from different Vantage points
aishi saying a few minutes back that
within an hour of the Court issuing
notice they arrived at the residence of
Arin kial and that it shows that Ed is
not an independent investigative agency
it's a political weapon of the BJP
stated lines repeated each and every
time he's received a summon from the
enforcement
director in other news Amad party
workers also chaging protests outside
the residence of Delhi chief minister
Arin kival enforcement director teams we
just saw more officers coming in outside
the residence rolling in more cars
rolled in outside the residence of Arin
kial we have some of our panelists also
ready on the debate vinit Goa is a
political analyst leans towards the BJP
Rish shasa leans towards Amad party
Hakim riswan ilahi leans towards the
amadm party vinit Goa is ready vinit Goa
is connected with us right now wi Goa he
could have he could have evaded all of
this I mean it's election season this
was not required they called you 9 times
you could have gone the first time you
could have gone the second time three
times four times 5 6 7 8 nine
times nine times and then you can't cry
foul G ramam to you ramam to all my cop
Alis and all the viewers who are
watching me right now it's a classic
case of CH or Cena JY somebody who is
involved in the cartel somebody who has
formed the cartel knowingly somebody who
benefited out of that pushed all the
delites to become addicted pushed young
children to become addicted now he's
trying to fly F he was given chance once
twice Thrice more than nine times
challenge instigated the agencies I wish
this is not only a surge I wish this is
not only a rate as a common citizen of
this Delhi I wish this culprit is
arrested Justice is given to him you
know he increased the number of shops
increase the number of hours of sale
increase the commission from 2% to 12%
decrease the number of dry days decrease
the age of drinking purely because he
could get money in Hindi they
say how could you sleep at home when you
force others kid to drink I think he
should get Justice I wish I repeat my
wish once again as a common citizen of
uh Delhi that he's arrested is exposed
you know so that you know people still
have faith in
La that's a that's a moral argument vit
that's a moral argument let me tell you
one thing that's a moral argument right
if you had told me that he should be
tried for uh for allegedly receiving
Kickbacks I would have said yes but
you're giving a moral argument and uh I
don't want to get into that because
there are BJP governments in different
states where different Lev is given to
different kinds of Industries I won't
talk about that I'm going across to
shaan as well shaan shaan what's the
update shaan is on the on the spot
outside kajal's residence shaan what's
going on uh he's challenging Ed even now
when they're inside his residence and uh
hearing that he's refusing to go to the
Ed office he's challenging the Ed at
every stage through every summon
Shaban well in fact let me just quickly
give you a sense of what's really
happening outside the res of the chief
minister now there's two layers of
security that has been brought in right
now you can see this is the barricading
that is essentially been done outside
his resident that's the first layer of
security brought in and thereafter what
you see through the back gate the black
gate right now on the other side is
where the chief Minister's residen is
that that area has been completely
cordoned off and the latest update also
coming in right now uh n is the fact
that the enforcement director has sought
for additional security outside their
headquarters so there is security that
is going to be brought in outside the
enforcement director headquarters so it
there appears right now as I speak
because a short while back on my way to
the chief Minister's residence I was
trying to get more information with
regards uh to what exactly the
enforcement directorate is up to it
turns out uh that the top officers are
in a huddle at this point in time it is
being closely monitored now with regards
to what is happening inside the chief
Minister's residence what we can tell
you is that the enforcement director had
gone inside with a search warrant this
along with at least two of the senior
officers who were present starting with
the joint director rank officer along
with him an assistant rank assistant
director rank officer who's also present
a clear indication of the fact that the
enforcement director perhaps has already
made up their mind with regards to what
would be the next logical step in their
entire investigation the reason why it
stems from the fact that there has been
non-compliance with the summons that
have already been issued and not one we
are talking about at least nine summons
that have been issued uh to Arin krial
that is the reason why remember they
have to take a logical decision at this
point in time which perhaps could be a
coercive action that could be taken in
the next 30 to 35 minutes or little uh
later because given the fact that the
searches are still underway so there
would be seizure that could take place
and as there have been also development
taking place right now slogan earing
that's actually taking place not very
sure whether they are just Amad party
supporters or you would also have um a
few other leaders who are also coming in
none of the senior leaders right now
here at the second level of uh at the
second level of uh the barricading that
has been been done the senior senior
armad party uh leaders including s baj
who spoke to the media just a short
while back basically indicated that they
are not being able to communicate with
Arvin krial which is which is exactly
what happens when the searches are
carried out because remember uh what
would essentially happen is that the
seizure would take place including the
electronic devices that's exactly what
has happened uh that's exactly what
hased in this
particular also currently as you can see
there is a lot of Sling that's taking
place outside his resid at this point in
time with some of the party workers also
now coming in clearly indicating the
fact that you know there is a bit bit of
a nervousness within the Amad party Camp
to given the fact that they fear that a
decision would be taken by the
enforcement director to take coercive
action against Arvin krial now this is
these are the developments that are
begin let me just quickly once again
take take you through what's currently
happening right now as the number of the
deployment that has been brought in
which is also been increased so there is
a high possibility that as the searches
actually complete let me just repeat
this and we can also put this out as the
searches complete the statement is
already been recorded but that is
absolutely different and that is not
what satisfies the investigation that is
the reason why right now the focus would
essentially be to complete the searches
and thereafter take the decision of
taking a coercive action in this entire
B which could actually result uh in yet
another arrest in this particular case
I'm saying this uh with some amount of
responsibility given the fact that the
developments that have taken place let
me quickly take you through what really
has happened inside the enforcement
director soon after the hearing that
took place over the last 24 to 48 hours
the discussion that was actually
happening with the legal team of the
enforcement director was this that they
have to basically impress about the
court
but ma'am n sumon skipped very very
clearly and categorically High Court
also went on to say that no coercive
action would be you know not granted to
Mr Arin krial is it not flouting of the
law see this entire matter is going on
into the court and still
today see the court has given the notice
to the Ed and Ed is supposed to answer
on 22nd of April so why there is so
hurry why there is so hurry and why such
kind of Rage in the capital city of
Delhi with the CM is happening and see
how how much of the police has been
deployed but ma'am if you see the trag
of events there were
n
next
inform
[Music]
updates coming in right now special
director special director has reached
the enforcement directorate headquarters
shaan Sen getting us more breaking news
updates right now that a critical
meeting has begun at the enforcement
directorate headquarters right now as we
speak enforcement directorate
headquarters is where a special meeting
is on senior officers part of the
meeting in the headquarters is what
we're getting to understand senior
officers are part of the meeting in the
headquarters of the enforcement
director seizures have been made I
repeat seizures have been made so we
have breaking news updates coming in
right now seizures have been made for
the first time we have some update on
the story after the enforcement director
team reached Arin kajal's residence
electronic devices have been seized I
repeat electronic devices have been
seized that's a breaking news update
that I have electronic devices seized
from Arin kajal's
residence seizures have been made Senior
officers are part of the meeting at the
headquarters
in enforcement
directorate a meeting is underway and
the enforcement directorate headquarters
has been informed about the seizure that
has now been made backto back minute by
minute breaking news updates in the case
of Arin krial who's been asked to go to
the enforcement director office the
enforcement director office has tried to
take him they've told him that he should
go with them and even at this stage he's
challenging the enforcement director
refusing to go to the enforcement
directorate office electronic devices
electronic
devices have been
seized in Arin kajal's
residence headquarters has been informed
about the seizures made shaan is back
he's picking up the minute by minute
update
shaan shaan what more are you hearing
shaan well at the latest update now
coming in uh top sources now indicating
there is already a meeting that has
begun in the headquarters in the
national capital u of the enforcement
director top level offices which also
includes the special director part of
that particular meeting so there is a
possibility a decision will be taken
very soon on what perhaps could be the
future of sitting chief minister arvind
krial in this entire matter let me also
quickly point this out that about 4 to
five mobile phones have already been
seized by the enforcement director at
this point in time that is one of the
reasons why I remember uh that brief it
appears that there has been a brief
altercation uh with the chief minister
on this entire matter because remember
when the statement was being recorded he
was essentially explained that this is
essentially a procedural matter that any
item that is taken into the possession
of the agency an explanation is
basically sought it's a form it's a kind
of a punch Nama if I may say so but
that's not the exact term that is
actually used but just for the benefit
of our viewers it's a form of punchnama
that is actually done where you take
into the details of all the items that
have been uh taken into uh custody by
the enforcement directorate and as we
speak the meeting has already begun so
expect that some decision would be taken
on this entire matter as of now what I'm
also picking up that no summons were
actually carried along with this
particular team as of now uh remember
those summons can if at all the
enforcement director after this meeting
actually takes the call of sending out a
someone that can be issued uh you know
at the at the very spot itself but as of
now uh there appears to be the Focus
right now appears to be on the searches
that are being carried out because right
now behind me what you're essentially
seeing is that the searches are
basically underway you have roughly over
a dozen uh members of the enforcement
director team they were headed by The
Joint director and assistant director
who have basically enter we I'm told
that BJP is
reacting
for
prop
[Music]
Rel
[Applause]
[Music]
well in fact that's the latest cabet BJP
sharply reacting on the statements that
have been made by Amad party leader s
bhw a short while back has already
declared that the Amad party essentially
believes that Arvin Kwal would be
arrested and in fact they've gone a step
ahead saying that the government of
Delhi will actually operate from inside
the prison now remember that's the claim
that has been made by the armad party at
this stage but just let me just quickly
stick to the facts of this entire matter
the reason why ladies and gentlemen
you're essentially looking at this kind
of an action being taken by the
enforcement director is only after about
nine summons that were actually issued
to the sitting chief minister the reason
why he was sa was to so that he could
actually explain whether at all as the
party convenor was he actually aware
that his party had allegedly
received Kickbacks in the liquor camp
now that's the explanation that that was
actually sought from the chief minister
by the enforcement directorate but right
now uh keeping in mind that the matter
had already reached the court uh a
complaint was filed by the enforcement
directorate about non-compliance of the
summons that were issued and thereafter
remember the court had basically asked
Arvin krial to appear in person and
that's the appearance that was actually
made not before the agency but before
the court and thereafter remember this
was also challenged by arvind krial in
fact the latest coming in earlier this
morning when a fresh petition that was
actually filed by Arin kajal's legal
team in the Delhi High Court seeking
interim relief interim protection in
this particular case remember the high
court had already indicated that they
are not inclined to provide any sort of
interim protection or interim relief to
the sitting chief minister Paving the
way for the enforcement director to take
some sort of action in this entire
matter this is for the first time that
you're essentially looking at the
enforcement directorate uh perhaps
carrying out searches what you see just
behind me I'll just step aside and just
give you a quick look now we are just
about a few meters away from the chief
Minister's residence right now this is
uh perhaps the entrance that you see
about a few meters 50 m down the this
particular road is where the chief
Minister's residence is and where the
searches are being carried out the
reason why we are not being allowed to
go in right now because there's a large
amount of security that has been brought
in this has now been divided into
multiple layers the black gate that you
see right now has been shut and this is
the yet another barricading that has
been done as you can see right now this
is how it looks like outside uh the
residence of the chief minister as we
speak a number of journalists along with
Amad party workers all have basically
come into the picture right now what's
important to point out here is that the
arm ADI party has essentially declared
they say that they are aware of the fact
that the enforcement director will be
arresting the chief minister as as far
as the enforcement director goes no such
decision has been taken as of now but
what I can tell our viewers ahead of
others that the enforcement director
currently having a meeting at the
headquarters there has already been a
seizure that has been made in this
particular case roughly about 4 to five
electronic devices have already been
seized by the uh enforcement directorate
apart from that a tablet to has been
taken into custody by the enforcement
director what we do not know at this
stage is whether at all any documents
have been seized by the enfor M director
whether at all any other items have been
seized or not that Clarity perhaps
likely to come in a little later about
another 30 minutes or so is what we are
looking at for fresh development to
actually take place I'm told uh that the
reporters who are also inside have all
been asked to immediately leave from
there so there is an expectation there
is an expectation right now that perhaps
the enforcement director could actually
take some sort of an action in a short
while from now is what we are picking up
so we'll have we are closely monitoring
what's really happen happening Nan if
you can also perhaps take over for a few
minutes as I could also get in some more
information from my sources with regards
to what has really happened because this
is the crucial meeting uh that is
basically underway right now in the
national capital at the enforcement
directorates headquarters where we are
given to understand that the current
director along with the other C officers
which includes the special director all
are currently in a huddle and remember
uh that's where the decision is
essentially made and just take a look at
what's the uh mood right now outside the
residence of the chief minister there is
adequate deployment that has been done
you have the rapid action force that has
been brought in this is on the left hand
side of the chief Minister's residence
uh this is the kind what you see right
now this is the kind of deployment that
has been done uh I must say that this
kind of a deployment is certainly an
indicator this is certainly an indicator
of the kind of preparations that have
gone into and something that the
enforcement director has already looked
into as I understand uh roughly around
7:30 this evening is when uh I did
manage to speak to one of my sources
within the enforcement director where
they said uh that yes the future course
of action has already been decided uh
after after what we were given to
understand after the developments that
took place in the Delhi High Court which
was uh you know perhaps a shot in the
arm for uh the enforcement director to
actually decide what perhaps could be
the next step of action uh in this
particular case that's when uh little
later a little later around 7:45 7:30
7:45 is when the decision was actually
taken to enter the chief Minister's
residence they had carried along with
them the search warrant because that
becomes important right now uh for the
enforcement director to carry out the
searches that's where the searches are
essentially uh taking place and uh the
development that has taken place so far
is that they have been able to seize
certain electronic items what we cannot
confirm at this point in time is whether
at all any documents pertaining uh to
the the lickup policy whether that has
been seized by the enforcement directed
or not that is still not very clear
we'll still stay with those a quick
glimpse of what's really happening there
uh and then perhaps we could also go
back uh to the reg for a short while so
that I can also get you some more
updates that are coming in fastpac
developments actually taking place right
now uh here outside the chief Minister's
residence shaan I'm giving you a one
what I'll give you a 60c breather I'm
just uh going through the details that
we have right now the four or five
breaking news updates that we have as of
this minute armad party officially
saying that the government now will run
from the prison armad party saying that
the government of Delhi will now run
from prison if
required anticipating the arrest of Arin
krial aadmi party saying that even if
he's arrested the government will
continue to run from prison and we have
some movement there in the national
capital some movement outside kajal's
house shaan some movement are those cars
going in or out all right those were
cars coming in earlier we are told those
are cars coming in earlier with more
officers of the enforcement direct who
came to Arin kajal's residence a few
minutes back in all likelihood Arin
krial from what we given to understand
the enforcement director wants to take
him wants to take him to the enforcement
director office where senior officers
are already present special director
special director of the enforcement
directorate is at the headquarters of Ed
as we speak meeting has begun in the
enforcement directorate headquarters
senior officers are part of the meeting
in the headquarters seizures have been
made these are electronic seizures
electronic devices have been seized from
the residents of Arin krial these are
some details that we have and uh about
the electronic devices being seized the
headquarters of enforcement directorate
has been informed about the seizures
made we don't have the exact details
Arvin kial even at this minute
challenging the enforcement director
which wanted to take him to the office
kival insisting that he wants to be
questioned at his residence itself I'm
not sure he can have his way this time
around he's had his way for nine times
when they summoned him he did not
respond to the summons did not present
himself for questioning so technically
this is the first time that the
enforcement directorate is questioning
the Delhi chief minister in the liquor
scam in which they claimed that
Kickbacks of 100 CR Kickbacks of 100 CR
were given to Arin krial who he was a
recipient or the beneficiary of that
Kickback in the words of the enforcement
directorate as claimed in court on a
written piece of paper That's The Story
So Far a sitting chief minister whose
party says he's not a person but a
thought he's not a person but a thought
but even that person as a citizen of
India will have to face the law Arin
krial even as we speak is being
questioned he's being questioned inside
his residence 7 to eight officers uh
entered initially with a search warrant
followed by more officers who came in
two additional cars they too are inside
we don't have the exact number of the
number of officers inside but given to
understand that anywhere anywhere
between 15 uh at least 10 to 15 officers
could be present inside the residence of
Arin kajal the the senior officers two
senior officers are part of the
investigation at Chief Minister's
residence a joint director rank officer
is also at kajal's residence questioning
is being done by the investigative
officer in the liquor scam case searches
and questioning taking place
simultaneously and some devices have
also been seized these are El elic
devices perhaps which will be
investigated further and the
headquarters of the enforcement
directorate has been informed of the
seizures that have been made I have
Deepak also joining us from The News
Room in Delhi news room in Delhi and and
I also have shaan joining me live from
outside the residence of Arin krial
getting in an update from Deepak Deepak
any more updates before I go across to
shaan right uh right now I'm outside uh
Delhi Chief Minister's residen here here
as you can see around and I if I could
tell my camera person to pan and show
you how the security has been ramped up
here completely there are police teams
deployed here and also an empty bus has
also been stationed here just to prevent
any unted incident and if there is any
breakout of protest these protesters
will be detained and they will be taken
over to the station in those buses and
also if you could see there's a lot of
police cover as well at the entrance of
civil lines leading up to the chief
minister
residents and right now what we have
given to understand is that 7 to8 uh
officers of the enforcement directorate
a second team has also reached uh the
chief Minister's residence and as we
speak the questioning is currently
underway a senior investigating officer
has also reached inside and here as you
can see there is a double line of police
barricading here and also and uh just
behind us there's also a lot of slogan
earing going on here as you can see this
is clearly outside the chief Minister's
residence there's a lot of action
happening
here and there's a lot of slogan hearing
also going on and uh most of them are am
admi party supporters if I could uh tell
our video journalist to show
us
well here you can see the supporters are
raising slogans in support of Arin krial
and they are here saying that so far
enforcement
directorate
[Music]
[Applause]
in
in
[Music]
in this AIG charge coming in from uh the
amadm party supporters saying that every
time that the Prime Minister faces an
opposition he hides behind the police
that's the slogan that uh the am admi
party supporters are raising and
and right here
the Delhi excise
policy all right signal there will just
go across uh we'll go back to
Deepak just losing the signal there with
Deepak Deepak is also outside the
residence of Arin kajal you saw the life
shot there life shot of the Gate of Arin
kial in fact sections of the media have
also been moved out of that particular
place media has been completely moved
out and uh they're at a distance the
media has been kept at a distance and
there's a police Cordon which is uh
guarding the gates of Arin kajal's new
residence and uh it appears it appears
that they're preparing for Action look
at that those buses have also been
brought in those buses also brought in
detentions are are likely if situation
gets out of hand now that's the
indication when buses like that are
brought in in fact some of those buses
also carried in the paramilitary forces
and the police and Amad party supporters
gathering in large numbers there and
Arin krial being questioned for almost 2
hours now two hours and counting Arvin
kial is inside his residence the
official residence we saw the first
pictures on Republic TV we broke that
story of officers entering his residence
earlier today with a search warrant in
the liquor scam in the liquor scam where
you had a high-profile another
high-profile arrest made a few days back
her name was K Kavita daughter of
kcr BRS Chief's daughter the BRS first
family Kavita has been arrested in the
liquor scam she's been accused of help
helping route the Kickbacks helping
route the Kickbacks to the aadmi party
and Arin krial has been named the
beneficiary of the scam named the
beneficiary of the 100 CR Kickback from
what the enforcement
directorate described as a South group
saying there was a South group that
funneled
Kickbacks to Delhi and the am admi party
and Arin kajal they claimed was the
beneficiary of that kickback and these
are live pictures coming in from outside
the residence of Arin kajal where the
enforcement director team has been
present since a little before little
before 7:00 a.m. in fact they came in a
little after 6:30 and they've been there
for over 2 hours I'm getting in some
more breaking news updates right now
minute by minute updates we're getting
in more details right now that
enforcement director enforcement
directorate putting down its foot on the
law and that Arin krial will have
perhaps no option to go to the
enforcement directory office and all the
indications from outside the residence
of Arin kial is that he could be picked
up and taken to the office of the
enforcement directorate he will have to
go he has no options krial and other
Chief ministers off office that is CMO
krial CMO officials present inside have
been informed by the enforcement
directorate that he has no choice has no
choice but to go to the Enforcement
directorate office
now is he a step away from the arrest
BJP saying it's high time that he's
arrested am admi party saying that it
the intention was to arrest Arin quesal
either way will Arvin kajal be arrested
if he goes to the enforcement director
office that's a question that uh that's
on everyone's mind let me go across to
shaan shaan are you there poor signal
there given all the media that's present
outside Delhi uh Delhi Chief Minister's
residence crunched crunch for bandwidth
they crunched for bandwidth as all the
live broadcasting units are out outside
Arin kajal's residence this evening and
the protest continue as amadm Party
leaders and their workers gathered
outside the residence of Arin krial
growing by the number growing by the
minute more and more coming out there
shouting slogans in support of krial
saying that this has been one big Witch
Hunt against the Delhi chief minister so
these are live pictures coming in I'm
staying with the live pictures and uh
hoping that the signal of uh shaan sen
and Deepak both of my colleagues are
outside the Delhi chief minister
residence I'm hoping that I get that
signal back uh more and more media in
fact all of delhi's media Delhi media is
outside the residence of Delhi chief
minister Arin krial and the bandwidth is
crunched and we have to rely on the
units there I'm going across and while I
do that let me also tell you that there
is more breaking news update coming in
five or six quick updates that we have
while we let me see if there's an audio
on that feed if there's an audio on that
feed of the protest let's pick up that
audio just to give a sense to our
viewers of of the mood outside the
residence of Arin krial of the pictures
that you are seeing of a leader who came
to power or riding on the
anti-corruption
plank became the chief minister riding
the anti-corruption wave the
anti-corruption wave in the 2010s 2011
and Arin krial who once said that
corrupt people should face the law is
facing very serious charges himself
accused of getting
100 Crow Kickbacks more sound bites
coming in is there a life sound bite
let's cut across
[Applause]
light all right the slogan you're in
contines sling continues amadm party
workers saying
t
t slogan of the aadmi party the slogan
The Chosen slogan in this political
season calling it a hunt by the
enforcement director when the agency has
been trying to question him for several
months together and he's been made
himself he's made himself unavailable
he's received setback after
setback setback after setback from the
courts the latest setback that came in
this morning and Arin kial had no choice
and his party his party is in a fix
right now going to the Supreme Court we
had an update that came in sometime back
that the am admi party could be knocking
on the doors of the Supreme Court today
we had a tweet from s minister in the
Delhi government that came in some time
back
that saying that media has also been
asked to leave move out from the gates
of Arin kajal's residents asking why
they've been moved out asking and in
fact saying that if there's going to be
an arrest let that arrest happen saying
let that arrest happen in front of the
cameras of course they would want the
arrest in front of the cameras they
would want the arrest in front of the
cameras because they will want those
pictures to play out in this election
season it will work for them maybe maybe
they're hoping that they will use that
for political mileage but nonetheless
Amad party workers have been called to
the Amad party office Amad party also in
a huddle on two fronts
politically fielding all their
supporters outside the residence of Arin
kajal to show solidarity to show support
to ensure that they question the
enforcement director and continue
protesting all night long as long as the
enforcement directorate rates continue
and on the other hand the legal team of
Arin krial is dialing those numbers
dialing those numbers of all top
Advocates all top legal jurists all top
names are there they have at their
command to help them in this hour of
need Arin krial will he be arrested he's
gone to the Supreme Court he's gone to
the Supreme Court Deepak is also there
Deepak are you there can you hear me why
don't you just tell us what what what's
going on there tell us what you see and
how it's building up outside the
residence of Arin krial
[Music]
Deepak
[Applause]
[Music]
there's a breaking news update there's a
breaking news tweet from the aadmi party
breaking news tweet from thead party
thead party has just
tweeted hash I stand with krial that's
the hashtag of the day being floated by
the admy party as their supreme leader
is being questioned by the enforcement
directorate in the liquor scam amadm
party
tweeting sumon n times dodg the N
times 10th time
unlucky he's been questioned by the
enforcement director for the first time
it's in fact the first time that Arin
kial has been questioned by the
enforcement directorate in the lior
scam did he have to bring it to that I
have some more breaking news updates
coming in right
now big breaking news update statement
of Arin krial is being
recorded statement of Arin krial is
being recorded under Section 17 bracket
1 bracket F of the pmla ACT that's a
breaking news update that I'm getting
second breaking news update the
enforcement director has gone inside the
residence of Arin kial with evidence
collected in the investigation from all
the different arrests that have been
made some of them have turned approv K
kav the latest to go in Ed has gone
inside the residence of Arin kival with
all the evidence that they've collected
in the investigation that they also also
stated in the court saying that Arvin
kial was a beneficiary of a scam of a
kickback saying that 100 Crow kick back
is what he
got and breaking number three breaking
news number three Arin krial has been
confronted with the statements recorded
in the case
Arin krial has been confronted with the
statements recorded in the
case enforcement directorate has the
option this is just a bit of information
that shaan is sharing with
us enforcement directorate has the
option of serving a summon after the
searches are
complete and if responses are
unsatisfactory I repeat if responses are
unsatisfactory then the arrest memo will
be served grounds of the arrest will be
read
out and that's just procedural updates
that we have but as of this minute
statement of Arin krial is being
recorded under Section 17 of the pmla
Act and the Ed that is the enforcement
director the agency probing the liquor
scam has gone inside his residence with
all the evidence they saw you saw that
file that they were carrying when they
entered they've gone inside with the
evidence collected in the course of the
investigation of liquor scam and Arin
kial has been confronted with the
statements recorded in the case
confronted with the statements recorded
in the
case and I have uh fourth breaking
update coming in from shaan minute by
minute updates minute by minute breaking
news updates from
shaan breaking number four responses
from the chief minister have been sought
under Section 17 of the pmla ACT respon
sought from krial under Section 17 of
the pmla ACT he's being tried he's being
investigated for moneya
laundering 100 CR moneya laundering was
the
charge and breaking news update number
five the enforcement directorate will
record Arin kajal's statement under
Section 50 of the pmla act after he's
brought to the Ed office that's another
breaking news update that I have back
toback breaking news updates coming in
from the national capital as
shaan shaan gets us the breaking news
updates the fastest breaking news
updates first with the pictures first
with the breaking news updates of Arin
krial being questioned I'm repeating the
updates in fact statement of krial is
being recorded under Section 17 of the
pmla act the enforcement directorate has
gone into the residence of Arin krial
with the evidence collected in the
investigation so far he's been
confronted with statements recorded in
the
case and responses from krial have been
sought under different sections of the
pmla ACT including section 17 and the
enforcement directorate will record his
statement I'm getting in some more
breaking news updates let's cut across
live
EX
all right so there you go there you go
attacking the government attacking the
enforcement directorate attacking the
agencies but uh even the supporters of
course have no answers on why Arin kial
had to dodge summons nine times it's a
record he's broken all records for for a
chief minister Arvin kajal uh may have
the record for dodging the enforcement
directorate the for the most number of
times in Indian hist history evading
nine summons in one single case the 10th
time 10th time unlucky they've gone to
his residence and they're recording a
statement right now and uh we have some
more breaking news updates right now
some more breaking news updates now
coming in in the case of Arin kdal this
is a breaking news update that the
enforcement directorate this is just a
bit of information procedural of course
that the enforcement directorate has the
option of serving a summons after the
searches are complete and if the
responses are unsatisfactory then the
possibility of the arrest memo the
possibility of arrest memo will kick in
an arrest memo will be served and the
grounds of arrest will be read out to
Arin krial that's a possibility uh that
could happen that's a breaking news
update that I had in fact I'm getting in
more and more breaking news updates let
me get you some more breaking news
updates right now that Arin kival
statement is being recorded by the
enforcement director team at least 10 to
15 officers are present inside 7 to
eight officers landed up at his
residence a little after 6:30 p.m. more
officers joined them and they're all
inside his house is a fortress you're
looking at the pictures of the
supporters of the amadm party at least
at least about uh 50 to 100 m away from
the gates of Arin krial and that's a
crowd that's building up crowd that's
building up and uh I'm not sure they're
going to remain there for a very very
long time given the given the
indications that we're getting from
inside the residence of Arin kial
enforcement directorate is recording a
state M under Section 50 of the pmla act
after he is brought to Ed office so that
is uh that is that is now almost a given
that they will record a
statement after he's brought to the Ed
office as well a statement is also being
recorded right now under Section 17 I'd
like to go across to shaan to get more
details of the difference between the
statement that is recorded now and the
possible statement that will be recorded
when he taken to the Ed office the
enforcement directorate in no move
uh to let krial challenge them this time
around he's being uh he's being question
I have another breaking news update
coming in meeting at the enforcement
directorate headquarters has now come to
an end and that meeting went on for
quite some time and it's now come to an
end is what shaan is informing us shaan
is also getting us the live breaking
news updates the minute-by-minute
updates first channel to get you the
pictures of the enforcement directorate
team at the residence of Arin kial the
first Channel with the breaking news
updates of what's Happening inside both
Arvin kajal's residents and also at the
enforcement directorate
headquarters so ladies and gentlemen
these are fast-paced developments let's
keep that audio on from Arwin kajal's
residence as well if you can pick up
pick up the ambience a bit you'll get a
sense of what's going on there as arm
admi party workers have all landed up
there in the h
shaan is back with us live shaan take us
through each of these breaking updates
that you've just shared with
us well in fact the latest DET let me
just quickly take you through some more
that have just picked up from my sources
uh one there is take you through some
more that I've just picked up from my
sources uh one there is already a
meeting which is underway at the
enforcement directorates headquarters in
the national capital that's where the
decision is going to be taken in a short
while from now with regards to the
future of City chief minister Arin krial
what we can confirm that under Section
17 of the pmla ACT Arvin K's statement
has been recorded by the enforcement
directorate that as part of the searches
that were carried out I'm given to
understand electronic devices were being
seized and the big important development
and a confirmation now coming in that he
was confronted with certain statements
that were recorded by the enforcement
director in the last few months and
that's a a big development now coming in
because remember that's a procedure and
that is usually done when the
enforcement directed is actually seeking
for some sort of a cooperation if at all
if at all Arvin krial does not really
cooperate which essentially means if he
does not respond to the questions that
have been asked by the enforcement
directorate and they feel that he he's
evasive about the question that have
been asked there is a very very high
possibility of a punitive action to be
taken if at all they are satisfied with
some of the responses that have come in
then after the searches that are
basically over the enforcement director
would hand over sumon to him asking him
to come to the enforcement directorate's
headquarters now that appears uh to be
the secondary option at this point in
time because so far by way of sources
within the Amad party as was pointing
out a short while back it appears that
the arv Arvin krial wasn't really
Cooperative with the agency I just
quickly take you through the
developments that are taking place right
now uh till about a short while back
most of the reporters were asked were
allowed yes shaan shaan shaan I I shaan
shaan shaan quickly shaan if you can
just uh switch on your mic shaan I think
we have a poor audio there I'm not able
to pick up the audio from your mic I'm
picking up the audio of the ambience
that perhaps is the audio from the
camera if you can switch on your mic
then uh we can perhaps get a clearer
audio of you I need a clearer audio of
you shaan just fix that mic and while
shaan fixes that mic a quick breaking
news updates ladies and gentlemen there
are five breaking news updates that we
have right now breaking news update
number one and by the way arnab arnab is
coming up live in just a few seconds
he's just getting miked up in the
studios he's coming live on the debate
in just a few seconds and just as Arab
mics up and shaan fixes his mic there
are five breaking news updates shaan
breaking news update number one
statement of Arin krial is being
recorded under Section 17 of pmla act
this is a statement that is being
recorded as we speak breaking news
update number two the enforcement
directorate has gone to the residence of
Arin krial with the evidence collected
in the investigation over the last few
months and perhaps over it it's been
over a year now since the story broke
out and they they're armed with evidence
and they have the evidence in their
hands inside the residence of Arin kajal
breaking news update number three Arin
kial has been confronted with statements
recorded in the case he's been
confronted
with the statements recorded in the case
shaan's audio has been fixed I want him
to take us through the update shaan
shaan Breaking News 4 and
5 well four four whether four quick
updates that we have got one chief
minister Arvin kajal's statement has
been recorded under Section 17 read by
1f which is basically when the searches
are being carried out search is also
been carried out under Section 17 of the
P act just a quick clarification this is
under oath what is happening right now
the statement that is being recorded by
the enforcement directorate is under
oath the third important development
seizures have already taken place in
fact we are being told that an
explanation was sought from the chief
minister with regard to certain seizure
that has been made which also includes
electronic devices that have been taken
into custody by the enforcement directed
the significant development that has
taken place is that the enforcement
directorate has now taken along with
them certain statements that have were
recorded we do not know whose statements
were taken but there is a high
possibility accused Samir mahendru
witnessed uh magunda Redi their
statements were extremely crucial and
the latest certainly being that of K
Kavita remember the enforcement
directorate uh was you know put out an
unprecedented statement saying that this
was an orchestrated deal between sitting
chief minister Arin krial the then
deputy chief minister bis s sodia and
BRS leader K Kavita and they called it
an orchestrated deal between the three
and this has happened just in the last
few days so there has been fast-paced
developments let me just also put this
on record that the meeting that is
basically underway right now in uh the
national in the headquarters in the
national capital that's where the
decision is going to be taken I'm
expecting that to be over in the next
couple of minutes in the next couple of
minutes where the meeting is going to be
over uh communication likely to take
take place with Senor officers who are
there but a quick check of what's really
happening a quick update now this we are
broadcasting from outside the chief
Minister's residents uh scores of
policemen now being brought in the rapid
action force has also been brought in as
we speak I'm told that the security has
also been tightened outside the
Enforcement directorates office in the
national capital if at all a putative
action is taken that's where the chief
minister will be taken so the moment he
is taken away from here that is a clear
indication of the fact that the
enforcement directorate has actually
decided to go ahead and place the chief
minister under arrest and that decision
would be taken in a short while from now
perhaps you know part of it has already
been decided given the fact that this
action that you're essentially seeing
right now would only happen would only
happen after there are drones that are
essentially being flown right now as you
see uh not very sure perhaps this would
be the Delhi police right now with the
security that you seeing the kind of
security that has been brought in uh
these drones I'll just stick with these
images coming in uh the drones that have
been brought in so there is the
situation extremely fluid right now
backto back developments taking place
I'll quickly take you through the top
five developments that are taking place
at the top of nine as that big
development taking place here behind me
as the Searchers are underway over to
edit Chief odob go
[Music]
Swami
[Music]
from the Delhi Studios of Republic TV
it's time for Arab goswami on the
[Music]
debate
[Music]
Arab goswami on the debate at 9:
presented by Amity University powered by
RP sanjie ginka Century Club Prime and
policy B are co-powered by B
[Applause]
colu good evening and welcome viewers
viewers I had predicted yesterday that
arind kajal's arrest is very likely you
will remember we debated it in detail
and as I said it is moving exactly in
that direction now there are two ways of
looking at this one that after his
arrest arind krial supporters will start
a sympathy campaign for
him secondly that like heon sain or k
Kavita both of whom have been arrested
in corruption charges it is unlikely
that arind krial will get any Mass
support given two facts one that the
charges of liquor gate the corruption
charges against him are very serious
chares of lior gate the corruption
charges against and
two I've have got news that krial has
been arrested ladies and gentlemen I'm
breaking that right now shaan is with me
so I'm breaking away from my lead ladies
and Gentlemen let's carry the Big Grid
krial arrested shaan what's the latest
shaan you can confirm that kajal has
been
arrested shaan K arrested first breaking
here on Republic yes much ahead much
much
ahead much ahead much ahead or no before
anyone else Republic TV is now
confirming we got the 100% confirmation
chief minister of Delhi Arvin krial has
now been arrested by the enforcement
director in a short F from now Arin
krial will be taken out from here taken
to the enforcement directorate
headquarters and I'm confirming this his
statement has already been recorded
under section
171f of the pmla chief minister arind
krial hasn't cooperated with the
enforcement directed a confirmation now
coming in that Arvin krial has been
arrested I'm also getting some more call
from my sources I'll just quickly take
our viewers to the quick developments he
was confronted today with some take a
couple of calls I'm holding it till then
ladies and gentlemen holding it there
take the call stay on air mute the audio
let him stay on air let him take the
calls ladies and gentlemen the big in
fact in fact in fact he has yeah so take
the calls take the calls you stay on air
ladies and gentlemen shaan is on air you
can see him speaking to his sources we
mute the audio there producers because
that's live news Gathering going on
before you you can see him getting
WhatsApp messages and shaan Sen Ace
reporter Ace television reporter shaan
sen breaking the news of the arrest of
arind krial he's going to move away from
the camera right now as you can see
ladies and gentlemen and arind krial has
been questioned for at least a couple of
hours but he's not been cooperating he
has made it absolutely clear he's in no
mood to cooperate he refused to go to
the Enforcement directorate office he
told the joint director of the
enforcement directorate that he will not
cooperate he said that he will not move
out he was set terms and
conditionalities the joint director is
the same director ladies and gentlemen
the same director who has questioned and
arrested K Kavita earlier he was
confronted with statements he was
confronted with proof he was told by the
enforcement directorate that they have
come with a sth of information that they
need to speak to him about it but Arin
krial is buying time and the whole
strategy of Arin krial and the aadmi
party is to have a whole group of people
outside whole group of people outside
you know who can sort of you know do
this buildup let's get the am admi party
spokesperson also like live right now
ladies and gentlemen way ahead of any
other network way ahead way way ahead of
any other network way ahead of any other
channel breaking the news of the arrest
of arind krial here on Republic and uh
we are now we'll be joined by AA marate
in just sometime aay marate is with us
aay marate spokesperson of the am admi
party aadmi party Chief Delhi chief
minister arind krial has been arrested
we can confirm right now should he not
have cooperated earlier should he have
waited for n summons moment of Reckoning
for the am admi party and he's refusing
to go to the Ed office what what does
all of this
indicate AE non-cooperation at this
level will not be seen well by the
courts all of this anab enforcement
directorate is a extortion Department of
the Baria J party it is not taken
seriously by anybody except for those
who are blind bucks of the Bia Jan party
so I understand that there are
sympathizers of the Ed who think that
Arin krial should have just walked into
the Ed office gotten arrested on right
on day one but Arin krial is an honest
leader who will get repreve from the
courts eventually and he has chosen the
difficult part arrested Your Leader has
been
arrested sir your leader is under arrest
now can I complete my point you can
celebrate it AR I understand leader has
been arrested should he not let I'm not
celebrating I'm saying that should he
not go on his own should he not go on
his own to the Ed office no he I'm not
celebrating I'm breaking a story should
he not go on his wants to go to the Ed
office he might as well go to the part
office because the party takes all the
leaders against wh the Ed has notices
and then the leader Jo those cases are
dropped so should have done the same
thing can we have the live shots and not
the arive shots ad running right now
when we have live shots from the spot
there are drone shots there are life
shots I'm telling the producers to the
live shots along with shaan we have
multiple cameras on the spot no archive
shots please not right now okay and
shaan you have more details shaan tell
me more shaan who broke the news first
about the arrest shaan tell me more
shaan tell me more well in fact shaan if
you can hear me I right now well in fact
right now right now the arrest arrest
move I can I can I can arrest arrest
memo will be served arrest memo will be
visual ground of arrest is going to be
read out to the Chief Minister I'm told
that I'm I'm told I'm told that there is
a sense of you know there has been a
brief altercation between the chief
minister and the enforcement director
officers pretty much what happened with
Chief Minister hean Surin too right now
because it is going to be important that
Arvid krial signs that arrest memo the
moment the right please do this
inv
AR
AR
cour
zaf Islam is joining the debate with AK
marati ladies and gentlemen I'm staying
with the shots throughout I'm staying
with the shots throughout the a lot of
security personel can I have the shots
on the air maximum time of the screen on
the shots ladies and gentlemen can I
have the shots on air constantly Aditi
because the view viewers want to see the
fullframe pictures right now that we
have from arind kajal's residents thank
you so much thank you we stay with the
pictures there what the am admi party
has been trying to do ladies and
gentlemen what you're seeing on the
ground is that they're trying to get
thousands and thousands and hundreds of
workers to the ground to start political
protests the challenge at this point of
time will be to take arind krial out
from his residence and to the Ed
headquarters which is already being
given maximum security So to avoid a
political confrontation things have to
move very very fast uh these are
pressure tactics obviously the aadmi
party is a party mobilized in Delhi they
will do everything possible to stop
arind krial from being taken to create
some kind of Law and Order situation on
the ground out there we have the BJP
facing off with the op on the debate on
both sides of the screen s Zafar joining
the debate right now are you fearing a
Law and Order situation here right now
with AE marate on the screen and AE is
this very bad form nine summons you
dodge 10 summons you've been given you
refuse to cooperate you tell the Ed you
will not cooperate you instruct them on
what they should be doing this is after
the thrashing that you have got you've
got a thrashing in the high court the
high court has pulled you up you lost
your case there and now you're trying to
block the
arrest you are trying to block an
arrested leader a marate from being
taken into custody a on the right can
respond can I can I respond now I think
you have been misinformed that we got a
thrashing in the high court in the high
court the court asked the enforcement
directorate to show even one single
piece of evidence that they have against
Mr Arin krial and the Ed was not able to
show even one your interpretation is
Holy and completely incorrect in the
high court today in the high court today
you went and asked them can I have you
on air on the right hand side
and and and the other guests on the left
the debate is on now a marate today in
the cour today in the court let me
finish today in the court you said
please please issue instructions please
issue instructions one minute I am
speaking over you because I'm countering
you can I just come in please okay and
in the court today you went and said you
went and said can I have you on the
screen I can't see you on the screen so
I can't take this debate forward Aditi
thank you yeah so the question is is
today in the court you went and said
that I should not be arrested and the
court said I am giving you no such
guarantee you demanded you said I should
not be arrested the court did not give
you any such guarantee did you ask for
protection from arrest and not get it am
I right or wrong there can I finish my
point now the court said the court asked
the enforcement directorate are you
planning to arrest do you have any
evidence against him the Ed said that we
have no evidence against him right now
we are not planning to
arrest speaking for so long that is what
can I just come in please the court then
issued a show notice not asking them for
explanation the court asked the Ed for
an explanation
why the Ed was supposed to respond by
22nd April I'm sorry you're completely
mistaken and completely wrong I don't
know who's giving you a low down of the
Court you went to the court one minute
one minute one minute one minute one
minute can you have three windows at the
bottom today you went to the one second
one second one just one minute first
ishar is countering you on what happened
in the court today I'm saying you lost
the case in the court you ref you could
not get protection you could not get
protection from coercive action in fact
for trying to set terms for an
appearance and I said that yesterday as
well because there is epic
misinformation being spread your viewers
should know what happened in theable I
both yesterday and today can I make my
point if you could lower his Le because
this is absolute misin being spre not
outright Li what happened in the on two
days first on the first the cour orally
observed why can you not appear on the
summons because you have received nine
summons now today there were two basic
prayers before the court one the summons
are illegal which the our party has been
saying outside the court the summons are
illegal the Ed could not summon the
summons should be stayed the suon should
be qued the second aspect was on which
they were asking the court was relief a
protection from cores measures in simple
language a protection from arrest both
these requests neither the summons were
state that means the Ed had the right to
summon him nor was he given any
protection from arrest and the third
part onto what Ed has a good case or not
Ed said during investigation we do not
show the case to any accused that's a
standard procedure by all investigative
agencies but the court insisted that you
show us the courts the proof whatever
files you have that was seen in the
chamber after that was seen in the
chamber The Honorable high court by an
Express order declined to give him any
relief declined to give him a relief of
prevention
absolutely absolutely FAL that is a
legal how can you not know the law
absolutely false that is absolutely
false let me let me respond now let me
respond that is absolutely false is
absolutely false you are lying you lying
on National Television why youed can I
for the last minutes without
interrupting him but you not let me
speak even
for before that I want to update viewers
I want to everyone and I have zafur on
the left a marate on the right and zafur
zafur I want to just recap the breaking
news right now Delhi chief minister Arin
krial has been arrested about five
mobile phones have been seized by the Ed
all the items have been taken into
custody the enforcement directorate
reached his house after arind krial lost
the case earlier today where the Delhi
High Court flatly refused any interim
protection from coercive action at this
stage to arind krial arind krial had
filed an application seeking interim
relief in his plea challenging the Ed
summons and there was a division bench
comprising of Justice Suresh Kumar K and
Justice Mano Jan uh they gave full
Liberty to the enforcement directorate
to file the response to kajal's
application and and the judge said that
at this point of time we cannot give him
any protection from arrest uh the Ed
reached his house the Ed told him the
joint director told him to come to the
office krial said I won't krial said I
refuse to move the Ed said he's not
cooperating the deed has then arrested
krial krial is right now under arrest
the op says he run the government from
lock up and we should be and the op has
started mobilizing its workers outside
the house to create some kind of a
physical situation there that is the
sequence of events now zafur Islam
National spokesperson of the BJP former
Raj you heard the spokesperson
yes
see I heard I heard the spokesperson I
heard the various leaders of op speaking
same rhetoric which they are speaking
for last several days but this will not
work anymore because he has to pay for
his sins the sins he has committed
everyone knows and there no authorities
as all the evidences proving him that he
is a guilty of committing crime along
with the many other people involved in
liquor scam so he wants to take all the
protection from this from the legal
protection which he is attempting but
there is absolutely no relief from high
court and he will not get any relief
from even from supreme court because I'm
saying because of the crime he has
committed no matter what the what the
spokesperson say no matter what the
leader of other spoke op leader says but
the fact is that that he has committed a
crime he has committed a sin and he is
paying price for that sin now whether he
appeals to Supreme Court nothing will
happen because he every the agencies
have proof and proof has been shown to
the high court and that's is why High
Court didn't give him any relief from
the arrest which he was thinking that he
will get protection from secondly what
is more important Arab that op is trying
to somehow create Law and Order
situation but let me tell you that no
matter whatever they try Law and Order
situation will be maintained as it has
to be maintained and they they will not
be able to disrupt the Law and Order
situation in the state of Delhi because
all the merary VES have been taken by
the security people by the authorities
and these these people may try to
disrupt but we will not allow it to
happen that is more important Point rad
that third very important point that he
was thinking that he is above the law
but today it has been proven if you
commit a crime then law has its own way
how long am I supposed to listen to
everybody
else that he has committed a
crime interruped by you to make a single
point throughout the show no you if you
are interrupting me you'll have to face
my questioning I will certainly question
you but it cannot be a oneway street one
minute one minute it cannot be a oneway
street has
crime for just one minute viewers
viewers this this impression this I I I
just want to make one point out here
that it is very easy for aay marate or
pank Sharma or Akash deep monei or
Mahesh Bala all of whom are on air and
Mr Bala is spokesperson of the BRS to
come on air that this is wrong that is
wrong Etc however I swear by every word
of what I'm saying here tonight viewers
and I know that you believe me I'll tell
you what has happened today viewers
first DD summon 2nd November
2023 Arin krial doesn't go second DED
summons 22nd December AR ref third sum
January refuses summons 18 January Arin
K
February refuses six summons 19th
February Aral refuses 7th summons 26th
February
arind krial says nothing doing 8th Ed
summons 287th February arind krial says
I will not cooperate 9th Ed summons 17th
March 2024 and Arin krial says I don't
care I don't care what you are saying of
the BJP you are a spokesperson of the
BJP that's why I don't care what you say
what you say does not matter you stand
with you stand
with care for the you don't two people
on the screen pleasee you don't care for
the court you don't care for the law you
don't care for the facts you don't care
for the high court and the high court
has turn you down sellout you're a
sellout of the BJP that's what you are
you can say what you want don't believe
you are a neutral person you can say
what you want you you can say what you
want
I
running you are going to this way you
burst an artery and achieve nothing one
minute one minute one minute can I can I
zaf zaf one minute zaf I can completely
understand P I can completely understand
Akash I can completely and totally
understand I can completely I canting I
I'm not celebrating I'm reporting it you
are the one who's very hot under the
call to I completely understand because
need to know that your viewers need to
know that arav kwami is with the BJP and
he will celebrate Arin K being arrested
but what you will not tell them is 2
months before the Loa election an
opposition leader being arrested he's a
dictatorship you you you should take
responsibility for dictatorship that
thrown
under will give it nice and proper I
will give it back to you nice and proper
but but but one minute but one minute I
request everyone tonight iqu no no no no
no no no Z zaf Islam 1 minute one minute
one minute one minute one minute one
minute Z Zafar Islam 1 minute
AKA marate has taken it too far and he
will now have to listen to me if he is
not a coward he will have to listen to
me if he is a coward he will interrupt
me I have listened to him and I'm now
going to give it back to him and unless
he's a coward he will listen to me now
and I'm sure he's not a
coward today ladies and gentlemen fact
is that the court refused to pass an
order granting interim protection from
arrest to
krial and the court said and I quote we
have heard both the sides however at
this stage we are not inclined to pass
any order exactly this is called a
defeat in the high court exactly and you
can cry scream call anyone a BJP
spokesperson but it is a fact second
point the court
emphasized the court emphasized it's not
the BJP the court so you be careful what
you say because jal's lawyer singi had
said today that Ed has filed six charge
sheets 25,000 documents what is the
purpose of the summons then the court
said Akay marate and you are probably
unaware therefore uninitiated you are
saying things without knowing the court
said and I quote the words of the Court
unless arind krial appears please note
viewers unless arind krial
appears how will he know what
information documents the Ed ultimately
wants from
him so the court give an instruction
Akash that Arin krial must appear yes
you will attack the court now yeah I
will attack the court let me let me
reply a back uh just I just now he'll
attack the court now he'll attack the
court listen to me no no now he says I
will attack the he'll attack everybody
to listen to No No he said I didn't say
the op spokesperson said I will attack
the court one minute Akash watch The
Words the op National spokesperson said
I will attack the court now so attack
the court I'll give you the fact sir
attack the court sir I'll
give the op spokesperson AA marate just
said yes I will attack the
court no
no to disagree with
the everyone have to respect
the but I have you said the court said
nothing when IED the you saying I
disagree with it one minute I want to
put some facts
here you I respect you so much but today
you put out the court proceeding
selectively sir I substantiate my
argument today the today The Honorable
ASG who is a lawyer of Ed said in the
court that neither Ami party or ar krial
is the accused in this matter of excise
scam alleged excise scam even that went
to the other level where the court asked
enforcement directory to present
material evidence against Irvin kial to
which enforcement direct said in the
court that material has is been
investigated so the material not
sufficing so material has been
investigated cannot be presented in
court quote
unquote so the evidence was not suffice
to arrest or to produced in a court of
law against Arin Kel as per the
enforcement director's lawyer Mr Raju
who is the additional solicor General
third point that Delhi completely
completely completely said something
completely and
incorrect can I come
in
enforcement to file that reply to Arin K
what is the final judment
by by the court did he did they give any
this is beyond
misinformation I'm not making people sit
pull the chairs and sit
yourself now now no no while everybody
party will be attacking today we know
that in 2018 no no let me ask you one
question let me ask him one question
forget about the proceeding what is the
final outcome what is the final outcome
did he get any protection from the court
did he get any protection from the court
did he get any from the court he didn't
get any from the court that's why he has
been
arrested the point is the point is akash
akash akash akash let me see if Shan can
give me
can andar come into the studio like I
asked them to come at 9:00 to can they
come in please on their own walk into
the studio please thank you very much
and now and now I'm on the debate with
I'm making a point here this is
tremendously distracting and please sit
up now I'm now I'm making a point here
now I'm making a point here uh just one
minute please just one minute just one
minute just one minute just one minute
just one minute
see today the high court told arind
krial why don't you file an anticip bail
application in the court
yet okay now the Ed in fact assured the
court Akash deep I don't know to what
extent you can lie but obviously you
have your own limits the court asked the
Ed tell us what evidence you have
against him for arrest is there any
document against krial in response to
which the Ed told the court my Lord we
have the
documents and ishkaran says that that in
confidence the investigating agency
shared certain documents yes yes so the
investigating agency shared certain
material in confidence with the material
is being
inv now you have I mean obviously you
have I
mean to have the investigative agency
documents they don't know the basic law
of the
land
agency at stage of Investigation gives
documents to anybody who under the
scanner That's the Law land of
course cover it is given to
judges the basic law of the land I do
not know how much information they can
spread on National
Television this is notation this
is gives orders does not
is
ridiculous does not no I'm not getting
the audio
clear I uh uh one minute uh P two years
this case has been going on for years
Mania has been in jail for more than one
not a single piece of has presented I
can't hear the audio be higher in the
studio I can't hear him a
AE listen to
me the court asked abishek Manu singi
who is kajal's legal representative you
are a citizens over the country they are
giving you summons why don't you appear
when you are given the summons what is
preventing you from attending the
summons to which kajal said I'm not
avoiding I need protection from arrest
because I am not a common Criminal I
need protection from arrest today the
court says I am not going to give you
protection from arrest after which the
Ed went to question kajal and told him
to cooperate he did not cooperate after
nine summons he has been arrested I
think that as much drama as you may want
to do the Delhi high court has rebuked
kajal's lawyer for giving a flimsy
excuse of not knowing whether the
summons are sent for kajal as accused or
witness the court said pursuant to the
summons if you attend the call only then
will you get to know the Delhi high
court has denied to entertain kajal's
argument that summons are a trap to
arrest him please understand what atii
says in our press conference that there
is no evidence is not the final word the
Ed respond you have to understand nobody
you see that Ed will not arrest a Delhi
chief minister unless it feels it is
sitting on sufficient
evidence are you going to speak can I
why aren you how long you have made
statements today which are Unworthy of
you and I I am compelled to respond to
you factually without descending to your
personal diet tribe I will not descend
to you I resp I will not descend want to
listen to me to your level I am telling
you today that this would not have
happened you don't want to listen no no
no question is not you must show some
patience I completely commiserate with
you your leader is arrested there's a
problem inad party which will unravel
but you need understand this is what has
happened uh can respond or no is this a
both of you justar
from party leader has been
arrested some kind of joke that is
playing
out is on is straty of thead party is
two and a marate hold on a marate your
leaders are having a second thought you
said you will go then you said you will
not now you're again going the legal
team of the amadm party has already
approached the registar office of the
Supreme Court you are waiting a response
you want a midnight hearing after Arin
krial being arrested right now abish
Manu sing came on record just few
minutes prior said no we are not now
you've already now you've already
approached the zoom in on me zoom in on
me now now no no one just just one
minute just one minute options running
out here abishek for aadmi party do you
think they'll get the Urgent hearing why
should the court give them an urgent
hearing they might get an urgent why on
what grounds on what on what grounds
with the Supreme Court give an urgent
hearing would he be treated like a vvp
for the simple reason there is a Lobby
or no if there is a Lobby no no one
minute I don't understand this if there
is a Lobby abishek does not mean the
Supreme Court gives an urgent hearing
will you I anyone any citizen of the
country get an urgent hearing then why
the question being why should Arin krial
get an urgent hearing when you were
arrested you got an urgent hearing just
F no I did not get an urgent hearing I
did not get an urgent hearing no you are
wrong a you are wrong AE second time you
are wrong you are very wrong you are
absolutely wrong I went through the
whole process I went through all the
courts I went through the Sessions Court
I went to the high court and then I go
to the Supreme Court you are a liar I
did not get an urgent hearing you're
factually incorrect you don't know what
you're talking about you made multiple
mistakes tonight you are unprepared for
the gravity of the situation and you
need to understand this you cannot you
cannot you cannot get away anymore and
by the way and by the way and by the way
by the way by the way unlike Your Leader
even when par Singh interrogated me I
went every time unlike Your Leader I did
not avoid 10
summons now if you're frustrated
desperate it's your problem you are
making
wrong on don't get desperate like that
Mr has been in jail without any trial
how is is that okay how is that a
democracy how is thater has to be on the
left hand side of the screen process a
you don't decide legal process is
fr
ComEd why can't you put Za Islam on the
left when necessary ad right now is
necessary is against the J party gets
trapped in the legal system that is
behind want
to disc we only want to see
final outcome was only one that he
didn't get any relief from the court
that is something everyone should
know has committed crime court has seen
all the
documents has seen all the evidences and
based on that he didn't get Court didn't
give him any that something which is
important for us to know what was
discussed in the inside the court is
something which is not relevant for us
to discuss because we do not know
everything what has happened there but
we know the consequences what happened
on the final outome so what happened to
a what was the consequence of what was
the
consequence
consequence he has committed consequence
to has
committed laay for his all his everybody
who's aligned with the BJP escapes jail
time and who has escaped the
law esw the law he only going through
the law the law through the
LA no law in this country
he going through the legal
process BJP there is absolutely law for
everywh you fa that there is no law for
you you Above the
Law is only
one of Delhi who is above the law sh has
Shan Shan cut to Shan Shan now please
with given to
understand will arind krial step down
given the fact that he has always taken
the position that any corruption
allegation a person in public life will
have to step down are we looking at the
chief minister of Delhi stepping down
with the arrest taken Arin krial was the
chief minister of Delhi is the chief
minister of Delhi and Will Remain the
chief minister are you suggesting that
the government of Delhi would be running
from the jail absolutely it will be
running from thar jail because this is
the clear modest operandi of the bhartia
Jan party put allegations of corruption
under pmla on all opposition leaders
arrest them why do they file cases only
under pmla because that is the only act
in this country under which it is
virtually impossible to get bail as a
senior leader Aisha you would agree that
there was no relief coming in from the
court primer faai there was evidence
against your other leaders the then
deputy chief minister how is it you
saying there is no evidence absolutely
where is the proceeds of crime can the
Ed after 2 years say they have recovered
even one rupe from any am admy party
leader they can't where is the evidence
where is the proceeds of crime they have
not been able to show any proceeds of
crime despite having hundreds of
officers investigate the case thousands
of raids and the timing of the arrest
makes it very clear tell someone as a
senior as a senior leader as an IRS
officer himself Mr krial says that tell
me whether am I a suspect or a witness
is that even a logical explanation it's
a logical question because the fact of
under I'm asking only under the section
50 under Section 17 of the pmla act it
is the prerogative
agenc question for you why is it all
P opposition leaders that's that you
should ask the enforcement director yes
absolutely the second question why is it
that all against the opposition leaders
do not happen under the crpc ACT they do
not happen under the prevention of
corruption act the only one act in which
cases get fired also because
there is a corruption Case by the
Central Bureau of Investigation
precisely because that is the only law
in the country it was the law was put in
place to prevent terrorism to prevent
trading of Narcotics today but it's also
money simp shaan can you ask her whether
she thinks vij is innocent can shaan
hear
me
well you hear me one of the fact is that
right now Party
leaders right now you know I
unfortunately I know because she's
already stepped out because right now if
if I can just show you what's really
happening on the other side is right now
most of the Amad Party leaders have come
on the road that's the current situation
reason why if you're wondering why feed
coming in ad if it is coming we'll cut
to it is it coming in right now one sec
I was just told that samit patra's feed
is also coming in we're seeing live BJP
reactions coming in can we cut to that
please can we cut to it immediately
please thank you very much moving ahead
on the story thank you let's hear the
reactions viewers idea the idea of
corruption the idea of minting money
through a I would say through excise
policy I mean this is unheard of louder
a CM a CM who talks about
education
educ
ladies and gentlemen mahes Bala is
spokesperson ad please cut out uh Mahesh
Bala is spokesperson of the BRS Mr Bala
today arind krial was confronted by some
statements we are told now we are also
told that the joint director of the
enforcement directorate who went there
to question and then arrest arind krial
is the same officer I think capil Raj
who arrested K Kavita so is it possible
that your leader K Kavita has made
certain
statements about the role of Arin
krial because things have moov very fast
after kavita's arrest
no I think this is not from the last
arrest of kav because this case is going
on Investigation is going on for the
last two years but we need to look at
the timing and how it is motivated it's
a it's the elections are coming in the
next month and probably in the month of
April and May but you know the arrest
took place of kav and Arin K G now why
why they took the last two years even to
investigate and arrest but and other
thing we need to question is but is are
there any cases on the BJP leaders are
even the NDA leaders it's only the Ed is
investigating only the opposition's
leaders see like the all this Ed pmla
cases are filed and investigated and
arrested all the opposition's leaders
only that's what like the India hasala
Mr Bala all the all the all the all the
as you are aware all the all the
opposition leaders went together to the
Supreme Court and says we are being
collectively targeted the Supreme Court
said this has no basis and sent you back
the Supreme Court said these are
political matters you can't bring them
in the area of the Court they are not
legally tenable arguments so the Supreme
Court has already dismissed that you
know that argument of victimization now
we need to go by what the courts are
saying panage this I don't think this is
going to lead to any Mass sympathy
campaign it already doesn't seem to me I
mean the op was expecting that people
will be out on the streets protesting
morning day and night it doesn't seem to
be
happening see the of the matter is
that too much of anything could
destroy sorrow laughs excessive Jo weeps
let me tell you arrest of kajal is going
to Boom rang politically very badly
on
buddi don't say thatal is not going to
get any sympathy out of this he will for
many years and especially for a few last
months the entire nation is debating the
issue of selective treatment by the
investigative agencies of Modi
government it is charitable attitude
towards the leaders of the ruling
dispensation and its bullying approach
bullying approach towards opposition
leaders is the actual cause of concern
why two sets of execution methodologies
for the similar laws people are asking
this
and it has become so obvious in last 10
years of Modi regime that you ask any
commoner on the streets ask October
2023 on 30th October
2023 pank G on 30th October
2023 uh the Court Supreme Court said we
will not give bail to Manish
sodia and the am admi party was shocked
aadmi party before that and I want to go
back to this abishek s zafur Islam and
AK are on the debate cour also said
there is a money Trail the Supreme Court
said there is a money Trail the Supreme
Court said that a money trail of not 1
CR 2 CR 33 crores but
338 crores has been tely established
that is not I do not understand after
that how any am admy party spokesperson
can come and say that the courts are
with us the law is with us in fact can
the Supreme Court had made the fact that
the money trail of 338 cres was
tentatively established the basis for
denying the bail of the former deputy
chief minister of Delhi Manish sodia
it's as clear as that these are the
words of the court and they also said
the new yes so AE are these the words of
the court or not you just respond with
saying yes or no then you can say what
you want this what cour what the Supreme
Court said or
not is this no no no no no no no you
can't avoid the question anymore is this
what the Supreme Court said no you can't
avoid the
question no I asking you and don't do
tum with me please I'm calling you up I
will not descend to your level please
please do not please do not I'm showing
you respect don't try to go too familiar
with me speaking to a senior journalist
you don't cross the line you let me
speak yeah but it doesn't matter man
whatever you say I'm still calling you
I'm calling you out respectfully what do
I do with your respect what do I do with
I don't care what you do one minute one
minute I don't care what you do I am
asking you a question is that what the
court said is that what the court said
let me speak you let me speak is that
what the court said let me speak let me
speak is this what the court
said the 338 money Trail did the Supreme
Court refer to the 338 money or not they
enough is enough I enough is
did the Supreme Court mention so he say
he can't answer the question that is
precisely the problem out here the
simple question being if you are asked
was there a 338 CR money Trail you don't
want to answer the question but Akash
there's no running away from that this
is the fundamental question you'll be
asked in the courts of public opinion
also see no no one minute let Akash take
that yeah yeah I'll answer the question
you are right that The Honorable Court
said that whatever the profits made in
this policy that will be considered as
proceeds of crime that is that CES to
331 CR I acknowledge that but the
profits made by it was by the companies
not by the there was no money Trail to
Manish isia San Singh or even arind kaj
till now there is otherwise Ed would
haveed with the tax of money now Z Islam
please don't Heckle please don't Heckle
please let me speak sir please now now
one of the most important factor I want
to tell today is that normally today
while all of us are talking about krial
being arrested sanj s who was named as
terrorist by up police in 2018 joined BH
J party so terrorist join
all I'm trying to tell you that no no
all I'm trying to tell you that you how
come you are giving him a certificate
how come you are giving him a
certificate when court has given the
certificate how how can you give the
certificate what has enough evidence
agencies have enough evidence against M
TR there enough evidence against him all
the proceeds of the crime has gone to he
is the
benici not the only benici the deputy
chief minister is also the
beneficiary to that
separately at all we to discuss about
discuss separately right now we
discussing
about
no accept accepted Pro PR through and
practice unfair practices are not tell
me why no no no I'm asking you about K
why are you trying to digress I'm not
trying to dig we will have a debate
separately we discuss everything about
it but why are you trying to dig
I'm asking a direct question did he get
did he get any relief from the court no
did he get any relief from the court or
not no he didn't get any Rel why because
there evidence against him you must
understand would have given him
definitely some relief and he would have
been given protection from the arrest
since he didn't get the protection
definitely mean meaning that there is
enough evidence against him like there
is enough evidence
against
the way the case is likely to go the way
the case is likely to go one minute one
minute the way the case is likely to go
viewers people are asking what will
happen next abishek you see now that it
is a question of a sitting chief
minister who has been
arrested I don't think the agencies can
afford to take chief minister is
arrested resigned H San resigned in his
case he's a chief minister technically
who is arrested then the court therefore
has to the agency has to prove that
krial has violated the prevention of
money laundering act so obviously they
would have had to force a Money Trade
see it's not the CBI which is arrested
him are you sure here that the AG CBI
case also there's a CBI case but the Ed
has chosen to arrest him which means
that it's an act of finality by the EDI
so they cannot take a risk of arresting
sitting chief minister without and
facing the embarrassment yes without in
the court of being pulled up by the
court saying that you do not have
reasons to arrest him yes so would they
take that risk they would not I mean and
look at the kind of a stance Supreme
Court has taken over the last couple of
weeks or they've been very tough and uh
there is no Indulgence whatsoever with
whatever position the government takes
so obviously agencies like the
enforcement directorate and CBI which
are
uh under attack from the position they
would not take any chance whatsoever in
so far as documents evidence and coll of
data is concerned corre correct so I I
believe and all those people who are
attacking these agencies on the panel
also would understand that when
everything is happening under such a
glare lens of media and Court scrutiny
the agencies would be very cautious and
conscious of the fact that their work is
under great scrutiny and today they
shared their work with the honorable
Judge today the Ed showed every document
they have all proofs they have mail TR
money tril everything to the to the to
the high court judge and then let the
judge to decide whether you want to give
protection or not the judge did not give
protection why are you
not so so fundamentally I think I'll
take a break at this point viewers uh
when I come back I'm going to go live
because arind krial has been arrested
but my last information is on the ground
that he has not been physically taken to
his residence yet now how do I look at
it viewers the liquor gate scam is under
investigation these are pictures here
let's hear the Ambient
sound okay these
are I'm not getting audio here in
the okay so so so so ladies and
gentlemen Manish Soria who is one of the
accused in the Delhi lakor gate scam
case former deputy chief minister of of
Delhi he has also got multiple criminal
charges slapped on him by the CBI what
I'm trying to say is this is not just a
pmla case this is not just a Ed Case
this is also a criminal case under
investigation under IPC section 20b so
there are serious charges out here uh
there is no doubt that there was a
liquor Scamp the only difficulty for the
agencies will be that arind krial so far
as I know has not had signing Authority
on any of these cases so you know the
people who've been signing off on the
files have been Manisha sodia and others
however is there something else which
can be established which corroborates
his role viewers krial arrested I'm back
in a few
[Music]
minutes
[Music]
start
startup tax
space
agriculture textile medicine transport
space
[Applause]
start
S
space
man
already
[Applause]
space
startup
ecosystem
from the Delhi Studios of Republic TV
it's time for the
[Music]
debate
[Music]
arnab goswami on the debate at 10
powered by RAR University quick heel
saite policy Bazar co-powered by
99acres.com dark editions by Tata
Motors welcome back ladies and gentlemen
to the debate and now it's time for the
nation's sharpest opinion the big story
today is that arind krial has been
arrested now I followed arind kajal's
career extrem ly closely for the longest
period of time in fact at some point of
time people said that I was responsible
for providing sort of media support for
the am admi party's predecessor which
was India against corruption and I
always held the view that we were not
supporting an individual we were at that
point of time supporting a cause viewers
I clearly remember at that time arind
krial came into my Studios and promised
to me that he would never join politics
so Arin krial is known to change his
position and nobody knows that more than
than me however today he's in a
vulnerable position what is my reading
of the situation what I would like to
tell you on the nation's sharpest
opinion this evening dear viewers and if
you look at the situation very very
logically is that it's absolutely an
allout case now either arind krial gets
fully exonerated in which case it's
going to be supremely embarrassing for
the BJP or arind krial gets convicted in
which case it is going to be the very
end end of his political career there is
no Halfway House in cases like this and
therefore Arin krial knows that the BJP
knows that the central government knows
that now if arvind krial after being
arrested gets the support of the courts
the courts say there is no case is
no it'll be a body blow for the central
government before the general election
and I think knowing all of these
variables there would have been some
very cool political calculation done by
the central government that if it is
going in for the arrest of arind krial
it better have enough information to
back up and build a case against him now
on the other side Arin kajal's entire
political career has been built not on
the freebies which he started giving
when he was chief minister it has been
built fundamentally on his initial
positioning as an anti-corruption
Crusader whether he was in reality one
or not we can't argue about it some
people say it's arguable but the fact is
that when he started his political
career he was seen to be one of the
followers of anah hazare and it was the
anti-corruption campaign a lot viewers a
lot has changed since the spring of 2011
and the spring of
2024 in these 13 years Arin krial has
become an absolutely hardened
politician Arin krial knows that it's
all out arind krial has made fundamental
mistakes he has used taxpayers money to
build himself an extremely expensive
home and things things like that which
are not good for public perception but
he's also been extremely careful on no
document or government policy has he
ever taken his own signature which means
he has always tried to look at the
long-term political career that he has
ahead of him and uh try and wait what
works for him what does not work for him
and try and if required put the blame on
his colleagues whether it be Manish
Soria whether it be satender Jen but
made sure that none of that taint ever
comes back to him so viewers also
tonight another point to make is that
the congress party is in a spot because
this is the very Congress that had said
that the entire krial government the
entire krial cabinet is immersed in
corruption and when did they say that
they said that in 2023 and as an icing
on the cake the congress party said the
chief minister should be arrested for
corruption I would like to remind the
viewers tonight that it'll be very
difficult for the congress party to do
what it has to do after this because the
congress party had said that because of
liquor gate arind krial is drenched in
corruption and arind krial should be
arrested in liquor gate this was still a
few months back 2023 Arin krial
pretended to be the beacon of the
anti-vip racism he was against the lbti
but ladies and gentlemen this is the
same krial is doing in his own source
viewers therefore some people would say
it is time for the mask of morality or
rather immorality of arind krial to come
off it is time for for the people to see
his real face out here the very people
who believed in his story of being the
arm admy with having the strong values
of the middle class will now Define his
future so viewers these are some very
you know clear questions that emerge out
of the situation tonight let me go first
to shaan to get a sense of what's
happening shaan it's been a long time
it's been a long time how many people
have turned up outside kajal's house and
why is he not being taken out
yet and what's what's going to happen
now that he's been
arrested
well well in fact the arrest memo has
already been served in fact the grounds
of arrest has already been read out to
the Chief Minister the reason for the
delay that we are seeing right now is
because of a Law and Order situation uh
that is basically developing outside the
chief Minister's residence I'll just
quickly show you uh these are the images
of senior aadmi party leaders who are
out on the road right now you have aishi
here and several of the other am ADI
Party leaders now this as you can see
right now know this entire area has been
completely blocked because a short while
back you've had senior Amad Party
leaders uh blocking this road not
allowing any movement to take place so
you have had the rapid action force that
has been brought in on both sides so on
the other side it's on the other side is
where the chief Minister's residence is
that area has been completely uh
barricaded we're expecting that to
happen in a short while from now
meanwhile there has been an additional
deployment that has been brought in uh
that that at the enforcement director's
office so in a short while from now it's
expected that he'll be taken out that's
where a medical examination will also
take place but yes there is a Law and
Order situation building outside the
chief Minister's
residence okay shaan is there abish know
you mentioned about the fact that krial
cut his teeth into politics with with
anti vvip movement but look at what's
happening really almost 5 to 7 kmet jams
is what we are getting to understand
shaan was just mentioning about the law
and ughter situation people are coming
out blocking roads and obviously this is
being mobilized and orchestrated so this
is not following the letter and spirit
of the law this is trying to Hoodwink
manipulate Etc in terms of when you're
facing the law also also the fact that
you were mentioning about arind krial
not signing any document now there is
this section in IPC now the BNS would
have a different number uh in the
bhartia n s
uh section 33 read along with section
120b of the IPC which is conspiracy
taken together with common intention and
common objective then you don't need a
signature because if you're part of a
conspiracy there is common intent if
something is proved for one it proves
for everyone involved in the conspiracy
right so I think so I think that that
bit that bit of homework obviously the
agencies would have done so the whole
attempt here awara has been to try and
project arind krial as the ring master
what they call loely the Kingpin Kingpin
the Kingpin of the scam uh the amadm
party says that you you this is a
positioning you've created but you don't
have concrete evidence against krial yet
what's the inner thinking in government
circles within the Ed within the BJP
that you're hearing no it's very clear
as far as BJP is concerned BJP says let
the agencies decide and today the
agencies because the allegation which
the Amad party levels onto the agency
that they work on the behalf of the
government that is the BJP so today the
agency gave gave all the documents all
the proofs they had to the judge and
allowed what do you mean all the proof I
mean they presented the complete file
against krial and not only krial the
whole mail Trail the whole line of
connection between Samir mahindru vij
all the people who are involved in this
Lakers scam and confidential information
was shared the court with with the Delhi
high court judge today and then he was
told sir there is only one request
please don't share it with anyone else
and now you decide should protection
been given should protection be given
don't forget there are approvers or not
there are
approvers we are still not questioning
the BRS leader said no there is no
connection the day after K kav was was
arrested ARA for the first time krial
was made a co-conspirator with an amount
of 100 CR being mentioned by
Ed true so uh I'd like to go across to
sidhart who's on the debate right now
sidhart Sharma of the am admi party and
pratus Kant of the BJP is with us uh we
have with us subra I see her on the
screen U now a point being made here
sadhart I can see I I appreciate the
fact that you are smiling you have a
smiling face tonight your other
colleague was so angry almost exploded
on the show aay marate but you are a man
with more experience uh however the the
the the specific point tonight it's it's
futile to ask you for your reaction
because I know what your reaction will
be the specific point we are coming to
tonight with you sidhart is that uh the
court was given a
file and pratus please pay attention to
this the the government was very keen to
win the
case to make sure that Arin krial does
not get any protection from
arrest so the government went all out
and through additional solicitor general
SV
Raju it placed time told a full
confidential envelope and file before
the honorable Judge and said milords
here is the information on the basis of
which we have to interrogate him take
action against him him being arind krial
but the court was also requested by the
agency that this is highly confidential
and very explosive information regarding
Mr
krial and I am sharing this with you in
confidence and please
do not stop us from arresting him if
necessary The Honorable High Court saw
the file
sadhar and after seeing the file said
you have to cooperate and I'm not going
to give you any protection from
arrest so obviously there is some
information which has been shared with
the
courts some very sensitive
facts some astonishing details perhaps
have been shared by the courts with the
courts so sidat this is going through
legal
process yeah it's not offici anymore
it's a very straightforward accurate
legal process
yes uh let me at the very outset tell
you that uh
uh hundreds of nearly 100 years ago we
also saw that when ped with a Bradman
the England cricket team led by Douglas
Jardine resorted to Bodyline bowling now
it was for the people to judge whether
that was right or wrong that was that
was one of the reasons why I was smiling
this is in politics as in sports uh you
you compete you compete everything
becomes fair in war and politics anyway
I'll come to the very specific points
the legal jargon that you were speaking
to and I think the viewers of Republic
TV also have a right to know what
happened today in the courts I'll be
very succinct it'll be very crisp hardly
10 sentences within 10 sentences I end
today what happen happened was arind
krial challenged Ed notices to him the
court gave Ed April 22nd to respond uh
if if earlier as you said the the the
court was apprised of some sensitive
information the court would have said
asked Arin krial to get arrested forth
with or or cooperate with the Ed forth
with it did not do so it the court gave
Ed 22nd April to respond the Ed had
earlier in its own press release has
named arind grial as the top leader of
Amad party but paradoxically in court
today the Ed said that it was it has
neither named him named him as an
accused nor wants to question him as an
Amad party leader now going further the
Ed also said that it can arrest anybody
anytime but it had not done so till that
time now what these things make clear it
is now clear that there is no no money
Trail found either with arind krial as a
person or as an accused now Ed had two
options today after that either respect
law and convince the court on April 22nd
that Arin krial was some kind of
beneficiary or the Ed had an option to
respect the BJP and arrest a
constitutional figure who was neither an
accused nor a beneficiary in Ed's own
admission now this was a catch 22
situation for for BJP it had to arrest
arind krial knowing fully well that it
is doing so at its own Peril and
confessing to its Panic that it does not
have answer to Arin k 's model of
governance it is as simple as that every
even a lay man today knows that sub
judice matters can't be acted upon still
BJP going ahead means BJP is so spooked
by amadm party that it can go from
illegal to blatant acts to stop arind
krial it is now crystal clear that after
getting caught pants down today
incidentally what had happened today was
at 5:00 the election commission had also
put on on its website the 8,250 CR Al
money that BJP had so BJP had go his
illegal funds that publication
desperately BJP needed a headline change
and I think that is what they are trying
to do now as far as aadmi party is
concerned arind krial is a model of
governance that model of governance got
acceptance not just in Delhi but Punjab
also I think that you are one minute uh
uh uh one minute uh can I can I can I
can I stop you right there sir
absolutely see what
happens what happens what happens is
that I I think that we must remain keep
our
focus and my focus is on the legal case
that has to be there or not there
against Mr kajal before that once let me
go across to Deepak shaan is there of
course Deepak if you can hear me what's
your location what's happening around
you right now what are you hearing about
when Mr krial may be brought out and why
is it taking so much
time right I'm currently outside uh the
Ed headquarters and behind me if I could
ask my uh video journalist to pan and
show you these are the barricades that
have been set up outside the Ed
headquarters heavy security deployment
has also been put in place at the Ed
office and Beyond these barricades
that's where Arin kial will be taken and
further questioning will be done and
what we are also getting to understand
here is that four companies of
paramilitary force as well as 100 police
Delhi police force have been deployed
across uh the national capital all the
roads leading from the Delhi Chief
Minister's residence till the Ed office
uh the entire route has been jam-packed
and uh the police deployment is also
high in the roads leading up to the Ed
headquarters so what we are given to
understand is that shortly Arin kial
will be brought to the Ed headquarters
where rml Health officials will carry
out his medical examination similar
situation as to what happened with
Sanjay Singh and satendra Jane as well
so similar process will be followed
first Arin kial will be brought to uh
the Ed headquarters after which a
medical examination will happen rml
Health officials will also reach the Ed
headquarters four companies of
paramilitary forces and also 100 police
Delhi police have been deployed and if I
could show you the route leading up to
uh the Enforcement directorate's office
uh Delhi police uh you know convoys have
been rallying up and down this road to
uh to detect any sort of untoward
incident and it is also expected that
that a large number of amadm Party
leaders will also arrive at the
enforcement directorates headquarters
right here and inew of uh thank you
thank you Deepak thank you thank you
Deepak Deepak the the there is a there
is another question here
now pratus the am admi party says arind
krial will be chief minister from thar
jail or from custody is this tenable is
this possible can you have the chief
minister of Delhi run his office from
jail I mean there has to be some
reasonableness to suggestions now pratus
what's your take on
that well whatever krial does doesn't
shock me his thought process Arab I
really watched this man's career very
closely and I'm so surprised that today
when he's going to jail I was just
remembering that his politics is based
on lies sitting in Delhi he's trying to
run Punjab basically he was a Kingpin to
corruption everywhere either you look at
Water
Bly infrastructure projects there was
not a single place where he and his
people didn't want to make money
including the Shish M which he made
where he lives even there the
contractors given money I mean there a
whole Saga of scams which this man was
heading all through and today when he
goes to jail and I was listening to the
op uh spokesperson and I realized that
he missed a point spes the arm admy
party went to the lower court where they
saw the paper they didn't listen to him
they went to high court they went to
double bench they went to the epex court
the single judge said there a clear
trail of 300 please don't disturb my
time go to the lower court and come to
us again even tomorrow he'll get
arrested he'll go to Supreme Court
Supreme Court will never listen to them
they will say please follow the due
procedure which is laid down in this
country that you go to the right
appropriate bench and then you come to
us krial was trying to ask the Ed you
send me the questionnaire do it on video
chat tomorrow you will ask the judges
your lordship you please give judgment
and tell me why you have given this
judgment do we have this in our
constitution is this man above
Constitution he was trying to run away
from all these summons because he knew
that all the roads were leading to his
house and event finally today the people
of Delhi will be relieved that this
corrupt man is going to jail and it was
high time had to be fixed because has
really suff 10 years PR Prat we have a
developing story we have a developing
story uh awara wants to come on it the
Delhi LG is to sub report submit a
report to the to the m absolutely is a
huge issue about whether you can be
chief minister uh from prison no the law
what's the latest on that absolutely at
this point of time keeping in mind that
there is a special status of Delhi
keeping in mind the law in place what we
are being told by our sources that a
chief minister cannot be in prison and
run the government this will hamper the
process and in that case no there a
technicality there there's a jail man no
there jail man there is a jail manual or
the so the jail manual Clearly say two
please yeah thank you yeah jail manual
clearly says that there is no provision
under which uh Minister can work from
inside the jail a minister cannot a
chief minister also a minister so the
the jail the jail manual in in case of
thar jail I'm being told is very clear
that isar jail specific or all jail I'm
getting to know
from the m has already sources are
clearly telling me m has gotten active m
is saying either he has to be replaced
or removed so it is up to the amadm
party because right now there is a whole
bravado of the amadm party saying aishi
comes out s badw comes out you'll have
the amadm party spokesperson ha also
comes out and say that no he will run
the government from no he cannot the law
doesn't allow that and in that case if
the arm admy party sticks to it then
either he has to be suspended a new
chief minister has to be swanned in or
the process will follow tomorrow morning
because till now the official as Shan
was just saying the arrest memo is being
worked on the letter is still not out so
the L will be submitting the report
while you speaking on on just live
movement there the Ed vehicles have just
gone in inside the vehicles and they
will be bringing out everything if I can
get the shot there or where the movement
is coming in and I and I put that
question I'll go back to shaan shaan can
you be there shaan can you move your
camera to where the action is happening
it'll be very useful because I think
you're being too static today why don't
you just move to where the action is
happening we'll follow you tell your
camera person to follow you not put his
camera on a tripod please can we get out
of the tripod shot please can you be on
a handheld and move to where the action
is happening thank you so much can that
also can that instruction also go to the
camera persons the video journalist with
Deepak on their frame we would like both
of you to move to where the action is
because it's not I know we are not going
to get the news in if we have you static
on the frames where you are so shaan can
you start moving in please and while
while you move in and while you
establish your shot and while the
establishing shot for you is where the
action is happening so you are not away
from the place of action thank you very
much I would like to go right now to
Sadat Sadat if there is a rule here you
can't defy the rule Sadat
sidat you cannot defy the rule if the
rule says that if the rule says sidat
can you hear me if the ru that you
cannot be chief minister from jail you
cannot create new rules for
yourself yeah two things one is that
Delhi will not be Delhi does not get
administered through a thar jail manual
Point number two in this same India the
stalwart like atal bihari wajp had
reminded of a Raja to
but he did he he chose not to accept it
so right nowmy party is a political
party we have won with a people's
mandate we have asked the people of
Delhi that arind krial gets arrested
what should be done can 95% of the
people have overwhelmingly said that we
have elected arind krial to serve us he
can serve us from wherever he wants to
it's as simple as that he can serve us
from wherever he wants to
I need I need Shan to be there you need
to understand Arin krial is not over and
above the law you may feel so but if no
minister no arind krial no other
minister irrespective of party amadm
party Congress BJP SP and the man who
comes out to defend you today is none
other but Rahul Gandhi Rahul Rahul
Gandhi is coming out you need to
understand does all cannot you cannot
does not allow that you cannot
superimpose ail manual on the of show me
the constitution of India and say that a
chief minister cannot shall be running
the chief ministership from XY or Z
place can you show me the constitution
of India saying so if not let's
understand that the law according to you
is not will not be administered
according
toh will be administered according to
the Constitution of India and if the
constitution of India I can explain sir
under the constitution of India there is
a vision of delegated legislation once
Parliament makes a law and
delegates oh okay fine under the
constitution of India there is a
provision of delegated legislation the
Jade Manuel comes under what is called a
delegated legislation and hands it
integral to the constitution of India
and so the chief minister if he's inside
the jail has to follow the jail manual
my my my my question Here Right Now to S
will be and Sid I can understand the
emotional tenor of what you're saying
can I have him on the shot and not be on
the eight window adii thank you I asking
I am asking something to sidat Aditi
thank you so much just one minute s just
chill okay chill now s listen to me
absolutely it's a is is Manish sodia
deputy chief minister of Delhi today he
is in
jail he's in jail for is he a present
deputy chief minister or former deputy
chief
minister well if you go back to the
timeline you will see that Mr man I
can't hear him loud enough in the studio
fall back
please yeah uh I think if you go back to
the timeline why was he removed as
deputy chief minister why was he removed
by arind krial as deputy chief minister
after he went to
jail two
WHYY chief
minister why not operate as deputy chief
minister from jail you're asking me to
defend I've heard your question I'm
asking you to answer my
question yeah but as a defense you have
to give me time to answer if you go back
to the timeline and see Mr Manish zodia
was neither removed from the deputy
chief ministership immediately after his
arrest after a considerable period of
time being the deputy chief minister he
himself said that he would have he would
resign and that is why that action was
taken please go back to the timeline and
see immediately after his arrest he was
not removed as the deputy chief
after a considerable amount of time
period of time had elapsed Mr Manish
sodia himself said that he would like to
resign then that is why it was accepted
it is as simple as that go back to the
timeline and see
now just just just just just just one
point sir uh I would like to remind you
that the Manisha sodia was deputy chief
minister of Delhi he was arrested and
the post of deputy chief minister has
been wakened since the 1st March of last
year however the post of Chief Minister
cannot be kept
vacant it is not vacant as of today AR
K Minister may not have a deputy chief
minister but Delhi has a chief minister
it is as simple as that you can't break
the rules for that you can't break the
rules for
thatal provision want secretar
offic you want the secretar to operate
there if it is not there it was not
there for Mr NRA Modi in 2002 when Mr
Atari vaj reminded him of rajad Dharma
so what does not apply what is good for
the goose is good for the gander how
come it how come you there is some other
rule for BJP and other rule for Amad
party Point number never arrested out of
your mind Mr Narendra was never arrested
there is no point number two you I
was never arrested there is no
comparison he was not arrested when was
Mr Modi arrested how can you draw
comparison to that wasn't he asked by
the prime minister of India Mr atel
bihari vajpai to follow rajad
Dharma was he arrested what was he
arrested isn't it isn't it isn't it
right that Mr Narendra Modi was under
arrested that argument no no no I mean
you have to you have to be reasonable at
some point of time you can't say
anything and get away with it
you you can you can read a nursery L
with a lot of force it doesn't make your
point
right incar not emerging subject of
debate can I go back to shaan please
shaan is reporting live shaan what's
happening around you
shaan I go I go straight to shaan I
don't have to go to the 11 window
shaan well in fact this is the last
point from where we can report right now
because the rapid action force has been
deployed here all the barric that has
been done in a short while from now we
expect it from the other gate I'll just
I'll just try and explain this to
you from where we are reporting right
now that's the chief minister this is
the chief Minister's residence which
have been as you can see right now
completely locked that's the last point
the enforcement director team is right
inside he will be taken out from this is
the gate right now there are a number of
armadi Party workers who have all been
gathered here and what you see right now
on my right hand side is the rapid
that has been brought in because there
is a bit of a Law and Order situation
that developed a short while back with
the roads on the other side from where I
was reporting a short while back that
was completely blocked that's the reason
why there has been a considerable delay
right now in terms of the arrest
formalities that have been that has
already been completed I'm given to
understand in a short while from now uh
the enforcement director headquarters
where the security has been broughten
the arrangements have already been
done
already done okay shaan I think we
getting a lot of video glitches on that
uh pratus uh the op is very very adamant
that arind krial will remain chief
minister and operate as chief minister
from thar jail or wherever he
is right and they they would like to
make a political issue of
it they have all been trained by arind
kri never believe a word of what they
say they will say something in the
morning by afternoon they will have a
press confidence and totally Deni and by
night they will change the whole story
there is no element of Truth in whatever
they say the rule of the law of the
country will prevail nobody can run this
city of Delhi from jail this man has to
resign this man will not get bail
because the law is so clear the evidence
is there look at all those excise scam
uh offenders they have been in jail for
ages because the proof is so strong the
evidence is so
strong B money and you turn him into an
appr and he
now isn't it true isn't it true for the
BJP
spokes you were talking absolutely
nonsense but still I had the patience to
you please have patience to hear okay
just have patience just have
patience I I never interfered in what
you were saying you were talking
absolutely
nonou
louder crime is Absol I was trying to
make a point here which this man is to
disturb me because he has no other story
to tell the question is the evidence is
so strong against so
strong see it took time for it took time
for him to get arrested because
[Music]
governance deficit it is as simple as
that there is absolutely no recy of
money here neither neither neither 100
there is not a single P recovery still
you are arresting people you arresting
constitutional authorities how come
that's on the basis of a person becoming
an appr and that appr
to and this is this is only one case the
innumerable scams where investigations
are going on eventually all of them are
going to mature and this man for all the
corruption he has done in
likei were arrested they were put behind
bars they were under the maintenance of
internal Security Act for nearly 17
months in jail they did that stop it is
BJP saying that mrhar
and
Mr National threat no were national
heroes we are also saying Heroes so what
you do with there is a weapon how do do
you use that weapon you have a nice I
think now it is a polarized fight
between bjp's ideology
and can I get the guest in the screen on
the
right
people that is am not hearing either in
the stud to vot now whether they
want people want to
vot s calm down s calm down s sidat calm
down s listen to me I'm finished today
you are fully aware that the case is
turning and Sanjay Singh has been Sanjay
Singh is not running the government in
Delhi nikel I cannot hear you in the
studio at all I don't know you're
because
I
uh today s Singh is not running the
government in Delhi Manish is sodia is
not running the government in Delhi
satendra Jen is not running the
government in Delhi if these three
individuals are not running the
government in Delhi because they are
from jail sadhart then how can arind
kajal run as chief minister from jail
arind krial has denied any of these
individuals s that he Arin krial has
said that once you go to jail you cannot
be in the cabinet then how does that
same rule not apply to him this is a
rule that he brought in he quickly
removed his existing ministers and
brought in atii why can't atishi be
chief minister of
Delhi I while he in jail when he comes
out if he's cleared then he can take
over
again what I answered earlier to your
question about the timeline of man
should be the minister I will not go go
into repeating repeating it again
suffice to say that Delhi has a
governance model arind krial as of now
is the chief minister of Delhi where
does the Constitution stop ask Mr krial
to run Delhi from X Y or Zed Place
anybody in the BJP can show it BJP
cannot show it so let us agree let us
stop it at that now as far as Public
Image is concerned as far as politics is
concerned amadm party and the people of
Delhi have overwhelmingly said that they
have voted for arind krial to serve
serve them and they don't really care
from where he serves as long as he
serves them and that is what AM admy
party is doing and that is what has
spooked BJP to this extent today that
with today itself I at the cost of
repetition I'll say AR today itself in
the court the the Ed said that arind
krial is neither an accused as a person
nor does it have any nor is it asking AR
who has said all this who has said what
are you
accus Le by even Chang within two hours
the only thing that changed is has been
you you are not arrested you don't get
ba like this what are you saying his
lawyer Wasing to the today
pleasure that he's not arrested why the
relas because the evidences were so
clear about him knew
that
makes no
sense something is sensible that this
debate can be taken further you are you
are trying to create stories which is
not true at all you cannot challenge the
Democracy like
this your lawyers today begging that
please what did the lordship say the
lordship clearly said what are
say change the story as you want India
today in the next
months
nobody Congress has joined the protest
on
ground sing now now my question to n and
nil and subra is n nikil nikil and subra
on the screen please and can I have the
audio in the studio nikil the congress
party had said that arind krial should
be arrested because he's The Mastermind
of corruption in the liquor gate
scam today the government has done what
the Congress
wanted this was the very statement of
the Congress that the am admi party is
at the center of liquor gate and arvind
krial is The
Mastermind I can't and Arin krial should
therefore be
arrested the audio is not clear I can't
hear
you
not
Arab may I may I have just been informed
that the Congress that the congress
party is joining the protest so I'm
reminding everyone yes subra coming to
you I'm reminding everyone that it is
the congress party which had said that
arind krial should be arrested because
of lior gate so please keep that in mind
when the congress party joins the
protest along with the aadmi party
tonight yes
subra uh Arab there are two three things
which are very Clear Point number one
today arind krial has
lost any kind of moral High Ground that
he was in he should take moral
responsibility and he should resign I
think I don't want to get into
legalities right now but this is what he
should do Point number two this country
has had a you know that there have been
precedence in the past we have seen yua
GI um bharati G Lau yadav g j Lita G all
resign they never said I I didn't hear
this Narrative of there is emergency in
the country that there is politics
happening all around people when they
were accused when lot of evidences came
to the
Forefront they fought the entire case
they did continue in politics nobody's
asking Arin krial to resign from
politics but the Constitutional post
that he has there is a sanctity attached
to the post and for the different kind
of politics that he was trying to
endorse I think he should just take
moral responsibility and
resign also you know uh there are lot of
these big talks being made by amadm
Party leaders let us
understand arind krial I'm talking
especially to about the India Alliance
leaders if these guys are fighting for
the Constitution and fighting for the
rule of law and fighting for different
the sanctity of different
institutions
I don't understand this what are you
talking about that political leaders in
a country have to bow down
before dict prime minister what are you
talking about I'm talking about the fact
that when you are
given look at the principal opposition
party of the country the congress party
all it bank accounts have been frozen JM
chief minister has been put behind bars
deputy chief minister of Delhi has been
behind bars now the chief minister of
Delhi is behind bars none of these
people have been convicted you're
talking about l l resigned from the he
was convicted by a byess not
by over me I'm not yet done what you are
doing right now is putting the entire
behind chares
without democracy country world is
looking at us and made this country into
a mockery for the past 74 years India
has been a Democratic Republic despite
being a poor country with a low literacy
level when he started out when the
British maintain Contin to be a
democracy through successive parties and
governments but you're the Supreme I'm
sorry to break this news to you India's
democracy does not seek validation from
AR Chief ministership let it sink in
your head if AR krial has committed has
committed grave Financial errors he will
have to go to jail without any
conviction by a court of law what are we
talking about what mockery is this we
are talking about the sanctity of
constitutional institutions in this
country we are talking about a fact that
there is G man in Delhi who is being
arrested by the
police
ref shamess and do not his he does not
have the
moral
the thew Notting on them tell you
again remaining in
politic
not a validation it's not a criteria of
how my democracy functions how can you
not
seean before I get S back
compan you are toward
the one minute can I get Hakim in please
thank you replace on the
right n thanks very much hakeim if krial
is made and accused formally then should
he quit
at least if he's formally made an
accused like sanj Singh was formally
made an accused two days back if he's
formally made an accused in liquor gate
which seems
likely then should he
quit I can't hear him in the studio
please can you unmute yourself
please
okay I don't think I can hear hakeim
there the question that emerges right
now can I go to shaan please if I can go
live to the shots full frame ladies and
gentlemen I want to see what exactly is
going on at the spot right now because
it's been a very very long time we are
waiting for any information on what's
Happening I would like to stay with
those pictures yes ADI thank you very
much I'd like to stay with the pictures
and viewers I'll give you a commentary
over what's going on uh I'm getting the
freeze frame pictures I'm sure there are
lots of feeds there right now I'm sure
we have Shan live on deepak's camera and
I hope that that camera can be made to
be live dpti if it's not a problem uh
shaan can you hear me can I take shaan's
audio because he can completely hear me
not get the pixelated frame on the
screen but I would like the non-
pixelated video over shaan's video adti
can you please do that thank you so much
shaan what's happening please what's
happening right now
please all the
procedures I can't hear
you by the time we correct the audio of
the amadm party and Congress have joined
forces the Congress leaders you have
sandip diit you have arender Singh Lely
you have the complete congress party
party Delhi unit coming out in support
of the amadm party But the irony is that
the Punjab unit of the Congress that is
the vice president of the Congress
Pradesh Committee of Punjab has come out
and welcomed the move of arrest of Arin
krial so it's a clear divide uh in the
congress party in Delhi they come out
and support and they are protesting
right on the streets with the supporters
of the amadm party while in Punjab the
same Congress part is welcoming the move
of the arrest of arind krial both are on
camera on record statements over clear
division no Clarity but that's the story
of the congress party so but what what
is intriguing me right now is why they
have not been able to bring arind krial
out of the house process I would be I
would be very very keen to know what
exactly is going on the process doesn't
happen so far it took 6 hours obviously
no
no with it took but this is clearly a
situation here where the Ed is facing
some discomfort inside and Arvin krial
knows that he can stretch this obviously
politically the game plan here is to get
the maximum number of people outside the
residence and make it difficult make it
uh make it as difficult as possible and
make a big political spectacle out of it
abishek I mean that's what I'm seeing
here because it's extraordinary if he
has been arrested at around 9:00 sharp
9:00 on top of 9 then this is taking
extremely long it's been 2 hours and the
entire force of the Ed has been unable
to take krial out no I'm getting to hear
that in that entire neighborhood there
are long Jam long jams and there is
mobilization happening these are people
who are not there just because they
happen to be there but they have been
brought in and so obviously as sh shaan
was also mentioning that there was
briefly a Law and Order situation also
so so every attempt is being made to
obviously intimidate the agencies into
conduct conducting themselves in a
certain fashion remember just a couple
of hours back before the news broke of
arrest of Arin krial the agency had to
requisition security from Delhi police
for their heads from crpf or Pal all the
complete par paramilitary forces have
been called in and that was someone was
just showing us you have atii coming
there you have SAR badw coming there you
have the complete you have at least 30
mlas of the Amad party and then calling
their supporters raki has been detained
so all of this is been deliberately done
and those are the live visuals coming in
of crpf and rap which has been deployed
right outside but those those Lanes of
civil lines of Delhi that is old Delhi
so roads are not that broad so Delhi
police is trying to create that space so
that the Ed Vehicles can move out they
have barricaded they have put in jammas
and that's why we having difficulty in
getting Shan's frame which we will be
getting within the next 30 seconds yes
so maybe the delay is assur just because
the agencies want to be doubly sure that
there is no Law and Order situation when
the chief minister of Delhi is brought
what the try to do I think the delay is
that you are dealing with a chief
minister he knows procedural issues he
will have his people around him he can
make uh several reasons to delay it I
know he can't he knows he can't delay it
indefinitely but he can delay it by
another couple of hours he me he knows
that people are watching par movement
happen their legal team is at the he's
going to buy time till he can get a
midnight hearing once they know that
midnight hearing is happening or not
happening and on that itself we have got
very differing uh feedback initially we
were told there will be a midnight
hearing but then after that I thought
there was a statement I'm not sure by
the by abishek Manu singi who came and
said no we are not pushing for a
midnight hearing at all not
and then there was another turn and they
up said again that no no we want a
midnight we don't know and I I
personally do not expect the Supreme
Court to be that overindulgent in this
case Okay Shan is just giving some
information or that he's saying that the
delay is happening because the arrest
memo has to be signed by Arin krial
which he has not signed so he's once
again not cooperating so this prec
saying that it's Arin krial who's
blocking it yes and who's refusing to
cooperate knowing fully well that
there's a situation that is developing
outside now if in a situation he knows
that he's foul of the law but he's not
foul of politics so it's a smart game by
Arin krial where he's saying I don't
care I'm going to be arrested anyway I'm
going to make this some kind of arrest
out here and I'm going to stand there
and I'm going to make it extremely
difficult and I hope that at the same
time while I'm doing that thousands of
people will gather outside my house and
this is a matter which is going to get
me a lot of publicity in a short or
limited run he knows that he has this
time period between now and when he's in
custody because once he's in custody
Everything Changes it is the short
window that he has now which he's going
to capitalize the most out of and that
is exactly what we are seeing here
tonight ladies and gentlemen it's a very
interesting play it's very interesting
developments very close developments
very fast developments which are
happening here we are told right now and
that's the breaking news on the grid
that arind krial is refusing to sign the
arrest memo but there must be a way
beyond that I I don't know if shaan is
on with us but there has to be a way
beyond that shaan that even if someone
does not sign an arrest memo that way
nobody would ever be arrested if every
person who was an accused or someone who
was going to be picked up knew that by
not signing the arrest memo a person
would uh would avoid being arrested then
it would be a very convenient way of
ever nobody ever being arrested so I
don't think this is going to work uh so
let me see if I have with me uh uh Hakim
riswan yet shaan is back I think we have
a better frame of him shaan what's going
on you gave an update shaan some time
back we heard that update we just
carried it that K is not signing the
arrest memo now that you are in and we
are getting your frame tell us
everything that we missed last 20
minutes well in fact the arrest memo has
already been served but he has to sign
that there has been a considerable de
the last update I got
that the signature of the chief minister
it's pretty
much also employed by Sur in fact there
was almost 3 hours delay by can I get
his mic a he was given the arrest M
around 9:00 in the evening can I get his
mic switched on camera to please hold on
and see if I can get the mic
connected can you get your mic connected
I'm getting your Ambiance audio but your
mic audio is not coming shaan your mic
audio is not coming so you need to get
your mic connected you need to tell your
cameraman to check his connection with
your
mic or maybe you're holding the wrong
mic thank
you Shan trying to fix his mic
shaan yes I can hear you now go on shaan
it's better now go on go
on go on we can get out of the seven
window for a bit adii and get Shan back
on the frame thank you now just just
take a look at it now right now right
now this is exactly what's happening you
have Amad party workers just outside his
residence they've blocked the entire
road so there is certainly a Law and
Order situation that's developing at the
same time Arvin krial hasn't signed the
arrest memo that's the reason other
reason why there has been a delay but
remember that's purely a tactic that is
employed by everyone in fact even hon
Surin did the same thing uh on of that's
the reason why now the fact of the
matter is that they will in a short
while from now if at all Arin K does not
he also knows that that goes against him
because this is something that will be
highlighted when he's actually produced
before the court and that can actually
once again go against Arvin krial show
showing that he hasn't been cooperating
with the agency the agency right now
perhaps you know being a little lenient
but at the same time this works in favor
of the agency if at all this continues
because remember right now as we speak
there is a clear Law and Order situation
as you can see the rapid action force
has already been brought in there is an
altercation that's going on between the
amadm party workers and the Delhi police
as well as the rapid action for this
entire area has been completely blocked
so if you see on on the right hand side
on my right hand side straight down is
AR K W's resident that area has been
completely blocked barricaded at least
two layers of barricading has already
been done and the reason why the reason
why there is another company that has
now been brought in from the other side
so there are two gates here or no there
are two gates gate number one that you
see right now on my screen I'll just ask
my camera person to move a little ahead
a little fast to actually quickly show
you as the movement basically takes
place that's the gate number one on the
other side is gate number two from the
from where the other vehicles are also
moving in so they're trying to clear
this off look at on my right hand side
where the area was completely blocked so
there is the situation Still Remains a
little volatile right now in terms of
the Law and Order situation hence the
delay
I'm seeing that situation there I don't
think this is going to work well for Mr
krial at all I think Shaban you are
right stay there I need your frame I
need your shot there completely you are
on camera non-stop shaan we have you
full frame on the screen so you're
moving towards there I mean can we speak
to any of these people who are trying to
put out these protests because I I think
that what we are hearing here is that uh
the Supreme Court registry has not taken
a decision yet on this matter just told
them
yeah so the Supreme Court registry does
not take a final decision on this matter
then they they will try and hold this
off so there are two parallel things
happening a legal process that's going
on where the op is trying to go to the
Supreme Court I don't know if they
registry we have the petition we have
the petition we have the diary number so
the diary number is 13598 sl202 4 it has
been filed at 857 the case it is still
showing pending so we have the we have
the case file number it is
up on this please can team please
connect ryth an BW we get a legal view
on on that as well so when we have that
we will try and connect her we'll get
her on a zoom link but there's this huge
protest going on outside the house and I
think the courts will take a very dim
view of this because this is
obstructionist you are stopping the
investigating agency from continuing
with a due legal process the gentleman
has been arrested the roads have been
blocked uh absolute non-cooperation
going on inside so while they're buying
time and this may look like a very
worthwhile tactic I think it's going to
be a blowback in the short to medium
term uh what do you think subra you're
watching this uh live drama going on
right now uh what do you think is the
game plan what is what is on kajal's
mind as he faces this
moment um I I think Arab that krial will
try to make as many political benefits
as he will'll try to reap as many
political benefits he can out of this uh
this entire uh drama which is which is
fair because if if if the Amad party
politicians keep saying that this is all
political then he you know the arrest is
political then might as well uh uh you
know make a spectacle out of it I I
don't think anybody would mind that
however the larger question in front of
all of us is this People Like Us who
genuinely believed in the power of
Revolution who genuinely believed that
there is an arm admy getting to the
chief ministerial position and trying to
bring in some changes what is going to
happen to to this generation I don't
think India for the next 30 40 years can
wake up to any kind of political
revolution anymore now this is a really
this is a real sad day for uh for any
kind of political hope in this country
this is what I have to say on this
entire
Fiasco so you know viewers I look at
this right now and the kind of company
that arind krial now is in abishek Lalu
Prasad yadav Lalu Prasad y was also
arrested uh 1997 for the F scam case and
some people thought oh there's going to
be overwhelming amount of political
support for him but Lalu Prasad Yad went
to jail for the first time for 135 days
then again 1998 he went in for 73 days
then in 2000 he went in uh for the
disproportionate assets case and after
that the party's support base actually
fell the rjd faced a massive fall got 22
seats which just 18% vote share in 2010
and the question is whether the am admi
party krial is of course younger but
he's Lalu was approximately kajal's age
25 years back krial would be about 56 57
so you know it's it's it's it's not
impossible that the BJP strategy is that
if you get the main man in jail then
it's very difficult to keep a party
together outside well also also the fact
that there is no structure within the
arm
just one man show one so obviously when
there are no internal institutions or
structures it collapses if the one man
who's running the show goes so it's not
going to be easy for the aadmi party uh
if the if if if as the jail manual says
that krial can't run the government from
inside the jail then obviously the
owners comes to the next person
available and in the absence of
structures it becomes a free for all so
uh it's not going to be and and remember
it's not like in the case of Ru Prasad
yadav there was a family holding the for
now the other the other point is if
legally nikil tomorrow if legally this
matter goes this way that the Supreme
Court uh that the courts deny bail to
arind
krial at this point of time we being no
special bench of the Supreme Court being
set up tonight to urgently have the the
Delhi CM Arvin kajal's petition
challenging is there is no special bench
of the Supreme Court so no midnight
hearing that's what
sure that abish Manu singi would have
known that this is only buying time let
me tell you the arind krial knows that
under 99% of the time he will not get a
special hearing this is all buying time
what is happening outside is the real
story they want a lot of people outside
so that when they know that when krial
is taken out after 12:00 there'll be a
large number of people they will make it
a moment for opposition Unity etc etc
but nikel if krial is denied bail I'm
sure these lawyers are going to rush for
bail if he's denied bail once twice
Thrice then the going gets tough doesn't
it AR then the BJP succeeds in its idea
of creating a constitutional crisis in
Delhi that you have an elected chief
minister who's being kept in custody
behind jail without any conviction by a
court of law this is classic case of
being afraid of the opposition that is
what Narendra Modi is doing right now
going the Supreme Court the Supreme
Court has denied bail to
the Supreme Court has denied the courts
have denied the police has just arrived
I'm getting visuals there Shan if I can
get his audio ladies and gentlemen moved
out being moved out being moved out is
no I think vehicles are moving inic the
vehicles are moving in right all these
moved out this looks like moving
out this this looks like one minute can
I have n for a
minute a huge carcade just went out was
that arind krial being taken out I'm
these are shots of him being taken out
can I please have I am told arind krial
has been taken out krial is being taken
out krial has been taken out from his
resence I'm not getting the updates can
I go full frame with those shots ADI
just as I said we can spare n for a
minute thank you very much okay this is
this is an ani feed this is uh this is
not the shaan's feed from the ground so
this is possibly uh from a different Tak
out Tak out we heard he taken out so
there are two shots shaan we are being
told he's been taken out from Another
Side we shaan we just been told he's
been taken out from Another Side we're
getting the carcade shots what are you
getting is information shaan we are told
that from another location arind krial
has been taken out he's on route to the
Ed office what are you hearing
shaan shaan what are you hearing shaan
what are you hearing he's just been
taken out he he's been taken out from
the other gate he's been taken out from
the other gate we'll just try and move
to this side because there's a
possibility is there's a possibility
that they would be taking this route
because if you see uh there has been
security that has been brought in this
side too I'll just quickly probably step
on this side and see if I can get a
closer look of that caret that is
basically moving in right now it's
expected it's expected that it'll be
coming out in a short while so we
showing you from the other gate that's
the other gate on from where the
movement has actually taken place uh
this area has now been cleared a short
while back this was completely blocked
he's going to straight away taken to the
enforcement director's headquarters
where a medical team from rml hospital
has already been brought in so a medical
examination takes place immediately
after he is brought to the enforcement
director's headquarters in the national
capital and there after and we do have a
camera there Deepak Deepak in fact
Deepak is there on at outside the
enforcement director's office where he
will be taken it's roughly about 30 30
to 35 minutes or that right there's no
traffic he's going to be straight away
taken to the where the examination takes
place and immediately after the medical
examination gets over uh perhaps there
is a possibility that the questioning
will actually continue because uh what
is essentially going to happen is that
till the time he is produced before the
Rouse Avenue Court we let's just see I
believe there's some movement this side
let's just move
towards yeah we're just moving towards
uh the other gate on up right now to see
if we can just get a quick glimpse of
that cavate that's moved out right now
it appears that they've taken that while
meanwhile at the others take out Shan at
the others take out I have Deepak with
me at the Ed office shaan the media is
waiting there at the Ed office any
incling you got because Deepak we got
information about 6 minutes back that
there was movement I don't know uh from
one of the gates there is news that uh
uh 10 uh 11 10 to 11 uh uh vehicle
carcade has moved out of kajal's
residence uh with a lot of siren and is
moving towards the Ed office any
information you have
there uh right Arab right now the only
thing that we can see right now and I
could ask my video journalist to show is
that barricades have been set up at the
entrance of the road that uh that leads
uh to the enforcement directorates
headquarters and the police security is
being ranked up with uh ramped up with
each uh passing minute and the patrol
vehicles are also on site here uh if I
could ask my video journalist to pan and
show you that these are the patrol
Vehicles these are Delhi police uh
Patrol vehicles that are busy clearing
the streets right here uh in the road
that uh where the Ed headquarters is
situated and it's a 20 uh 20 minute
route from the Delhi Chief Minister's
residence till uh the Ed headquarters
and all alonga what we witnessed is
heavy deployment of police cover every
uh Nook and corner off the roads off the
route lead leading up to the enforcement
directorate's headquarters is completely
ramped up with the Delhi police taking
charge and also diverting traffic from
uh the route to ensure that K wal's
movement is facilitated without ease and
without any delay and right now what we
given to understand is that as soon as
Arin krial arrives here he will be taken
inside the Ed headquarters where a
medical team from the rml hospital has
already reached and they will be
conducting the medical test of uh the
Delhi chief minister after which the
questioning is likely to continue and if
I could uh tell you what's happening
here the barricades have been set up
here the police uh deployment is also
increasing with each passing minute and
what we have given to understand is that
uh the security cover will only increase
here because am ADI Party leaders are
also expected to come here and round two
of a blockade will also be witnessed
here because round one was at the Delhi
Chief Minister's residence and round two
will be at the Ed headquarters where the
amadm party leaders will have their last
ditch effort to stop the enforcement
directorate from taking Arin krial
inside the Ed headquarters for further
questioning and tomorrow according to
sources Delhi chief minister if
everything works out at the one minute
hold on I'm getting rhythm in right now
Rhythm yeah Deepak one minute pleas VI
what you're seeing on the left hand side
are the visuals K that's coming in right
now court is not going to have any
urgent midnight hearing tonight even
though he's it's he's challenging his
arrest by the enforcement directorate in
the Delhi lure policy case the hearing
is going to only happen on Friday uh I
also tried to have a word with his
lawyers today that is Dr abishek Manu
sing's team that's going to be leading
this charge in the Supreme Court
tomorrow uh they have tried to approach
the regist in fact we at Republic TV
have also tried tries to speak to the
registar and a few minutes ago when we
tried to speak to him he said that till
now nothing had come forward before him
now the news that's coming in is that
Supreme Court is not going to be giving
any Hearing in this case today it's only
going to be happening tomorrow like all
of us have been discussing this is a
course with the enforcement directorate
case but as of now no urgent midnight
hearing as was being speculated by Arin
kajal's team in the top Court of the
country and they've been trying to seek
an urg hearing they even tried to
apparently go to the registrar's house
but the registar has not stated anything
it is at the discretion of the Chief
Justice of India if any midnight hearing
is given and it's not going to happen
tonight only tomorrow as per protocol
this case is going to be heard in the
Supreme Court let's also update our
viewers on why there is no occasion for
a midnight Hearing in this case uh uh we
remember it was even earlier when Manish
had been arrested last year around this
time but he's been denied bail in these
cases now the matter is how soon once he
approaches the Supreme Court will the
Supreme Court intervene in such cases
even though a big human cry is being
made by the arm admy party legally
speaking there are very rare chances
that the Supreme Court will interfere in
the powers of the enforcement
directorate this is also after the
Supreme Court's judge judement that has
come Justice khilar the former Supreme
Court Judge had given a judgment in the
enforcement on on the powers of the
prevention of money laundering Act and
the powers of the Ed which were making
it the dictat very clear when it comes
to arrest when it comes to summons the
Ed has power or up that power cannot be
taken away just because a human cry is
being made by the arm admy party and I I
I also onee hold your breath and I want
to ask you a question uh I want to ask
you question
here uh yes okay we have a bite of Sor
badage we'll play that and then I'm
coming back to
[Music]
yeah
evidence
proper opposition
AR
arind arind
[Music]
IDE
sh
Supreme
arrest Court registry
sueme
[Music]
[Music]
cour
IM
in
cabinet
proposals
circul
SU
congresses allia
Congress Sam party
say home akiles yadav
G Priyanka Gandhi Rahul
Gandhi
k
[Music]
top
[Music]
Le
part
V
ladies and gentlemen sorab baj is there
and my question is to you know this
example was really bizarre when he said
that sub Sahara of the Sahara group he
also ran Sahara B conglomerate from the
jail it's a terrible
example uh now Rhythm if this matter
comes up in the Supreme Court
tomorrow the Supreme Court has always
been emphasizing on newe
process what can Arin krial really
expect
here if it is uh due
process then what really is the example
which can be
cited by their lawyers before The
Supreme Court and what's the history of
how the court usually deals with cases
like this well uh Arab in such cases one
has to understand he is challenging his
arrest if he's challenging his arrest
the Supreme Court is going to be hearing
the case they're going to be hearing the
challenge also from the enforcement
directorate they're going to be seeing
the behavior of the accused and I want
to remind our viewers this is not just
some ordinary person here he's been
named as the 32nd accused 32 30 second
accused in The Lure scam case if we
actually see the sheer number of times
Arvin krial has been summoned and he's
not come to the enforcement directorates
offices it's n today was the ninth time
raids have been conducted in this
particular case in 245 locations across
India when we talk about the lure scam
case oror when we been hearing and
seeing the six Char sheets filed in this
case it's a very serious case we at
Republic TV have been debating it for
the longest time if I can also just take
our viewers towards what really is the
case because uh this is not just some
random arrest or a political move that
has been made but an arrest that has
been made after very very crucial
details that come out in the lior scam
case which have people who are very
close to arind kajal being named here
there was a person called Vijay ner the
Ed had long ago stated that vij n had uh
that 100 CR rupees Kickbacks had been
paid in advance to vij n who was the am
admy party's Communication in charge
there were also soria's former secretary
who spilled the beans and who gave lots
of details into 2022 in December to the
enforcement directorate what is the Ed
now saying the Ed says a conspiracy has
been hatched by political leaders that
includes Arin kajal Manish Soria and now
K kabita who was arrested last week in
this case he's of course the first
high-profile person to be arrested but
it takes time for an investigation to
continue and to come to terms with this
case is really pertaining to money
laundering charges which the Delhi
government's excise policy of 2021-22
has spoken about they had also claimed
arm admy party received Kickbacks they
also spoke about 100 CR rupees Kickbacks
in the excise policy his name had not
been mentioned earlier but in multiple
chart sheets kad's name came and finally
it was him who was named as the 32nd
accused or up even as we speaking about
this dramatic visuals on the screen
which are clearly showing the arm admi
party is going to try and derive as much
political mileage as they can today
because there will be protests that
continue to be held their legal team is
going to try and go to the registrar's
office but the word from the Supreme
Court is clear no midnight Hearing in
such a case it's only tomorrow that the
case will be heard if I can actually
tell our viewers once again what's been
happening in the case there was also the
45 CR rupees bride that had been spoken
about for the Goa assembly elections
this is also something mentioned in one
of the six chart sheets that had been
filed by the enforcement director in
this case the financial crimes probe
agency had also stated that there were
several individuals including
parliamentarians who will be in this
case we also of course know Manish Soria
and sing San Singh are currently lodged
in thear jail in the very same case The
Lure scam case is is clearly something
now that's going to be haunting the arm
admy party and they have a lot of
evidence with them when they say this uh
in fact in one of the chart sheets the
Ed has also pegged the losses at
2,873 CR rupees so or when be talking
about this kind of a motivated illegal
uh money laundering case in proceeds of
crime case as the Ed has stated one has
to be very clear they have immense
evidence before them in fact in some of
the chart sheets that I had also gone
through it was very they IM evidence
kept cropping up yes so uh there was
also the South group that was comprising
of businessman Sarat ready there was
also magun Shas shasu Ry who were a part
of that I remember reading in K Kavita
it was stated that in Delhi under nine
zones out of 32 in Delhi under the new
excise policy there was an
extraordinarily High 12% profit margin
for wholesalers and almost
185% margin that had been given for
retailers 6% of the 12% margin was to be
collected back for the hair wholesalers
as Kickback this is about proceeds of
crime this is about Kickback I'm going
to simplify this for the viewers uh
because like I said we need to
understand the lure scam is something
we've been debating for the past two
years it's not suddenly Arisen kajal's
arrest was imminent today he's been
named as the 32nd accused there are six
huge char sheets in this case there are
people who've been arrested there are
people who spilled the beans in fact
people who are close to them who spilled
the beans and have spoken about it this
policy that had started the Delhi excise
policy was later scrapped the agency had
alleged that accused were in touch with
krial for formulating the excise policy
he skipped summons the Ed also claimed
that there was a
conspiracy uh I also want to tell our
viewers here about like I said Vijay n
one of the key people who was earlier
arrested 100 KY CR rupees Kickback that
was spoken about earlier it said he was
managing the scheme and was conspiracy
on behalf of the arm practically
speaking uh
Rhythm we are getting some action from
outside the Ed i' like to go to the
pictures there uh live full frame please
Deepak I can see the cars are reaching
full frame
pictures will be carried out and after
which the questioning will uh continue
and tomorrow he will be he will be
presented before the pmla court these
are live visuals from the Ed
headquarters kibal is on his way and he
will be arriving in just moments from
now this is the first round of cavalcade
that has uh LED kajal's Convoy and after
this this is just the first wave of the
police vehicles that are arriving at the
enforcement directorates headquarters
and after this krial will be arriving at
at the headquarters where he will be
questioned a medical test will be done
and after which he will be uh produced
before a pmla cour tomorrow right now
this is uh these are the live visuals
from the enforcement directorates
headquarters the security has been
beefed up and the barricades have been
put in place in moments from now Arin
krial will be here at the enforcement
director's
headquarters we're getting different
shots there uh stay with us deep right
now uh this is the massive security
deployment that has been done at the
enforcement directorates headquarters
around 100 Delhi police Personnel have
been deployed at the enforcement
directorate's headquarters
now a team of the enforcement
directorate according
to well we are getting some live visuals
of vehicle movement from uh the Delhi
Chief Minister's residence this is the
first wave of vehicles that has arrived
at the enforcement directores
headquarters of kyal will be coming in
very soon right
now another another set of vehicles have
uh reached the
Delhi have reached the headquarters of
the enforcement
directorate well uh a wave of Delhi
police convoys have started arriving at
the enforcement directores headquarters
well we saw from all directions Delhi
police these are the seizures from the
kall's
residents and very soon Arin krial will
also be brought this is extra deployment
of police that is being pressed in at
the enforcement directorates
headquarters another police van has
arrived at the enforcement directorates
headquarters to prevent any sort of
untoward incident that is expected to
take place because round one was at the
Delhi Chief Minister's residence in
civil lines and right now amadm Party
leaders are also expected to come here
to block the enforcement directorate
from taking Arin Kwal inside the
premises of the enforcement directory
headquarters so the Delhi police is
making sure that uh no situation goes
out of hand and in order to ensure that
additional forces are also being
deployed this is another van of Delhi
police which has arrived at the
enforcement directorate
headquarters yes and we are staying with
these live visuals and these are also
pictures of Arin krial the deputy the
Delhi chief minister has vess her first
visuals after arrest in the police car
that's a police car in which Arin krial
has been taken out of his residence he's
about to reach we have our colleague
deepal Deepak live there right outside
Ed headquarters we have our multiple
teams there shavan is at the Arin krial
residence he's also reaching Ed
headquarters and now Deepak we are being
told that more and more cars are coming
in he's in a white and over we can see
him uh can you also spot that white
white color yeah white color
muv Deepak no Arab over you right now
that uh that car that we're speaking
about hasn't arrived yet what has
arrived here is uh a slew of convoys of
the Delhi police and uh when we showed
right about a few seconds back another
policeman has also arrived at the Ed
headquarters to prevent any sort of
untoward incident because amadm Party
leaders are also expected to arrive here
in large numbers to block the uh you
know block the enforcement director from
taking kial inside so what will follow
after he's taken into inside the Ed
headquarters is that a medical checkup
will be done a tight security is in
place and after the medical checkup by
the rml health
official if I may say so so
far uh one of the dangers
P one of the dangers for the aadmi party
is that by Nature it's an extremely
centralized party people
decision making is extremely
centralized uh there are no clear
structures of
organization uh
control and the danger for the aadmi
party I'm not talking anything else here
the legality of course whether the
Supreme Court entertains them tomorrow
we'll have to see but the danger will be
that this is a party which is a very
flat structure
yeah and the only structure that existed
p b
below krial was an un written structure
where Manish in the Delhi government it
was Manisha sodia in Parliament it was
sanj sing
yeah because everybody with else who was
senior with the Amad party is gone
ashutosh and all the others are gone
it's they yogendra yadav ashutosh they
are not
there and atii despite being finance
minister is politically very raw right
I'm just analyzing this politically
she's not considered to be senior at
Alli s right yeah AI s both orshi and s
badw are both much younger less
experienced they will not be accepted as
leaders by the remainder of the CER of
the amadm party so my question will be
on a practical level below the emotive
part of it on a practical level there
will challenges will be if if arind
krial continues to be in jail for a
month two months 3 months the
extraordinary situation will develop for
the Amad
party well it is already an
extraordinary situation because uh
of the largest the fastest growing
political party of the country has been
put behind bars and um the accounts of
the largest opposition political party
were frozen you know uh we may call it
uh that you know it is legal fair enough
might be legal you create laws in such a
manner that which gives you an
opportunity to use it in a partisan
manner against the people whom you seem
uh as threat to yourself so you know to
my mind this uh this is is a legalized
atrocity which the BJP has Unleashed on
Amad party and Arin krial I am under uh
you know um No No Illusion that it is
going to be difficult for arm admy party
without Mr krial Mr krial is the
inspiration from from whom the whole
party derives uh energy and uh but I
think the top leadership has made it
amply clear that it will be Mr krial
only who will running the government if
behind I'm pretty much
sure when any when any when any party
enters into a battle like this and you
are saying that it is a battle I don't
disagree with you that it is a battle
and I I'm we are under no illusions that
there is no political angle to this but
when if any Center gets into a battle of
this kind it has to be confident enough
to win you either get into the battle
when you have enough facts with you now
now my question is Karan and push to
both of you if arind krial gets
convicted it might take a long time it
might take 3 months 6 months one year
but if there is a long period of his
physical absence by being in jail
followed by a conviction on pretty much
the same grounds as Sanjay Singh and
Manish
sodia then what happens he has reached
if at the age of 56 or 57 whatever his
age now he is a convicted person then
what
happens how did the party T how does the
party tack it what happens to Amad ADI
party what happens to krial if he's
convicted honestly so the question Arab
the party has fallen apart I mean I
don't think it will fall apart it has
fallen apart there's no credibility left
when you skip eight summons when the
Supreme Court says there is a money
trail of 338 crores established I think
that the the doors were closing on krial
he knew what Wasing coming his way
crying Vendetta or saying this is legal
atrocity it doesn't work now and people
also see this let's understand they've
lost sympathy today people are no longer
sympathizing with the am admy party they
understand that liquor scam happened the
CAG has pointed out a minimum loss of
2,000 crores so people they've lost in
the eyes of the people also this has
dented them politically this has dented
them legally and it's only fair that
they fall apart now because and it's a
great Testament to our legal system the
CM L resigned after he was convicted up
says kajal is not
convicted you
know was
convicted no was
convicted okay so let us go let us come
back to the uh organization of aadmi
party okay like I come from the state of
MP we might have lost badly here in the
State Assembly elections I was one of
them who lost so that's fair enough that
uh we were not able to Garner enough
votes apart from two or three seats in
which we uh did all right okay in all
other seats we did badly but this is
this is how it is done
right as The Honorable Kashi used to say
and we have we have we have our SE in
the state of madad have we have
organization you are a party which is
growing p p p p I know what you're
saying right but you are a party that is
supro Arin K you have a supro fallen
apart lost alled it's like today Trin
Congress trinal Congress at least has a
number two in Abhishek banery they don't
but am admy party does not have a number
two nckl number two is you you know it's
a very big risk number two is also in
jail yeah number two number three number
four are in jail now it's a you are
forgetting one man who is who who is
right now
was being P to be the and by the way by
the way by the way lot of people
commenting lot of people commenting p on
the on the conspicuous absence absence
of ragav chadda I'm told he's gone for
some eye surgery which is very necessary
I wish him well I hope he recovers the
timing is interesting but he was caught
with a British and you know the fact
that he's choosing to be as far away as
possible and for medical reasons of
course and largely quiet away from
Politics on the Ed's part that they
had there a investigation as Min he was
called a defacto chief minister in
number two to Arin krial where is he
yes well as you have yourself mentioned
that he has gone for an i Sur somebody
in a surgery do expect them to come out
of it and sit on the street in protest
because the Ed chose to
arrest
what line of argument is this yety oh is
he oh he's on the Streets of London he
he he's on the Streets of London with
the British Member of Parliament getting
pictures clicked just too
busy have to take a flight
back you have to at least take a flight
back you have to give the man that
enough
time you have to give that man that
enough time and quite interesting that
we've been talking about part enely
dependent on one
supr
narra Modi what is the BJP without
Narendra Modi today no no rhythm Rhythm
or rather what is the BJP without the Ed
CBI and all
this yes there are a battery of leaders
in BJP is the biggest chance for arind
krial if if Arin krial does not get
relief before The Supreme Court tomorrow
yes and given that the high court has
not been very charitable to him after
seeing the preliminary evidence put
before them in a sealed cover by the
investigating agencies
today if Arin krial does not get relief
tomorrow from the Supreme Court does
your experience tell you that he is then
in for a longer term in
custody or if you go by
the and the investigation that has been
carried on by the enforcement
directorate in this case it is not a
case that is uh going to be seen as
being very easy on Arin krial it's been
2 years the case has been carrying on
he's the 302 accused like you yourself
said that after after so much time after
so much effort after vij n
after Manish soria's own secretary
spills the bean only after evidence
being collected from the south Lobby and
the fourth high-profile arrest in this
case of Arin krial is made I very much
doubt that the Supreme Court would like
to interfere in a criminal investigation
that is being carried on by the
enforcement directorate yes they will
try and move uh I'm also trying to get
in touch with the legal team that is
being led by senior Advocate Dr Abhishek
Manus singi in this case there has been
false news that had been earlier given
that a midnight hearing would be care
there however the legal team has said
plan they would only be for case in the
Supreme Court and now the registrar's
office has also stated that there is no
such chances of a midnight hearing
coming if we actually also uh look at
what has been stated in the high court
it's very evident and clear what the
legal team is actually going to be
stating tomorrow it's not uh you know
it's not anything different that they're
going to be stating other than saying
that this is a politically motivated
case they're also going to be
questioning the powers of the
enforcement directorate under the pmla
ACT which they're trying to challenge so
up to shortly answer your question it's
going to be extremely difficult for them
to be able to get arind krial out by
challenging the statue and the
enforcement directorate rules it is the
Supreme Court's bench of justice khilar
that had ensured that the pmla ACT gets
the supremacy that it has and it's
supposed to also include political
leaders who cannot get uh who cannot get
away from the hands of an Central agency
only because they are political leaders
keeping that in mind uh it will be very
difficult to do anything but on one
thing is for sure today after the
medical checkup Arvin krial is going to
be spending his night in the Ed lock up
he's not going to go anywhere he's not
going to be allowed anywhere so this is
also going accus is he an
accused is he an accused because I think
ASG Raju said something contrary to it
in the Delhi High Court ASG Raju in the
Delhi high court has said if he had
joined one of the summons in the case we
would have been able to tell arind krial
whether we are calling him as an ACC
accused or as a witness but yes after
all the six charge sheets have been
filed he has been named as an accused
when the case came up before the Delhi
high court yesterday ASG Raju said at
least he should have answered one of the
summons then we would have told him
whether he's going to be seen as a
witness or an accused alas he never came
for any of the summons even Dr tother to
that Ry the question as by and many admy
party spokespersons as well that is he
an accused now push you are fully aware
that Sanjay Singh was formally made an
accused just two days back but he has
been in custody for months now so that
is not an argument which holds on your
channel I've been I I've been listening
to this conversation and uh I got this
information through through this this
program only that he is the 30C accused
so far I was not aware of
it and I I don't think to my mind I may
be wrong please correct me if I'm
wrong
name TW of the you name ragav CH any
tweet he says and he says what he has
to he obviously an accused that's why
he's being arrested what you're talking
about is the formality of aring him as
an accused in papers yeah that is that
is that that's the legal part of
it that's the legal part of it isn't it
unless and until the Char sheet mentions
him names him as an accused how can we
say that he's an accused and if the six
Char sheet does mention him as an
accused then ASG will probably Li has 90
days
bab I understand they have days I'm
already I'm already listening listening
listening listening about it on your
channel right that he is the 30C
accused so the you know and that is the
fact that has been put forth before
before the country
by by
myel whether ASG Raju the additional
solister General SV Raju who's been
appearing in the case in the Supreme
court and the lower courts and the Delhi
high court yesterday mentioned it in so
many words or not uh is the fact that
this Ed has conducted all these
investigations in 245 locations across
India we also know finally he's been
arrested but uh you know if you just
want to go on Words the fact of the
matter also is he's going to be spending
this night in a lockup because of
several reasons one of them of course
being the entire
investigation
by for the last years in the money
laundering case to challenge the Eds
[Music]
dict seems to be little to get Bel that
you're looking for Arin krial in the
Supreme Court tomorrow Ma'am that was a
very specific information that you
provided that he's the 30C accused in
the alleged Deli lior Gates Camp so that
was very specific information and the
the ASG never never said anything to
that effect in the in the uh you how do
you get this information on the basis
the chart sheet and the number of people
who have already been arrested there has
been
also of other specific informations
which you have very comfortably just
sideline one minute one minute I I think
she he's trying to go by words I will
settle this matter P by saying that what
she has said and I will make it amply
clear she has said there are six charge
sheets in degate excise policy
investigation she has said that 31
individuals and entities have been named
including former deputy chief minister
Manish
sodia MP of AP sanes Singh both sanes
Singh and Manisha sodia are currently in
thar jail and krial is the 32nd to be
arrested in this case now yeah so that's
it that a matter of time before he's
made accused that was an assumption on
technicalities the issue is what happens
politically
corre the only question right now is
what will condu 70 or programs on this
matter you know this I think not on
technicalities I am I am entirely on a
point right now that I would have got a
sense of where things are going P based
upon the views responses of the courts
you will agree with me you will agree
with me that the courts have not been
very charitable to the am admi party in
liquor gate and that has been one of the
disappointments you have Ace lawyers on
your side abishek Manu singi is not like
Caple he's a competent lawyer but you
have seen how unsuccessful even abishek
Manu singi has been in this case both
comp this case is not one on which there
is any success so far it is comple is
not getting success despite pulling out
all its legal as it is absolutely a
complex case because still this is the
202 video this is a 20 second long video
where you see Arin krial getting
arrested okay viewers this picture there
if you run it full frame it's a 20c
video it's a 20 second video someone can
describe it it is on the screen you will
see arind krial go in while he's being
arrested there is arind krial coming out
I think I see him
there yeah and his onour with him yes
his family they moving very slowly and
then realizing his family standing there
Arin krial comes out and is being taken
in the car all very
orderly and uh I think this is after
they realize that the Supreme Court is
not entertaining them shaan has the
latest while we stay on the pictures
shaan what's up right
now well in fact he's going to be kept
inside a lockup which is inside the
enforcement director headquarters this
is at the ground floor where he will be
kept in a short while from now there
would be a team of the rml coming in
from the rml hospital for the medical
checkup to be done after the medical
checkup is completed uh on no we give it
to understand the questioning will
continue because the latest update that
I got after the team left from Arvin
kajal's residence is that they have
seized certain documents however the
enforcement director were tight lift
about the nature of the documents that
were seized by the enforcement director
was it pertaining to the scam that is
not known at this point in time but they
say that they are going to examine these
documents that have been seized from his
residents electronic devices have also
been taken uh that has been seized a
backup would be taken up once uh they
reach the enforcement director's office
and is handed over to the investigating
officer a report is essentially going to
be prepared because it is expected
roughly after 2:00 in the afternoon is
when he's going to be produced before
the rousa court where the reand is bed
another big development because there
was a lot of speculation whether at all
K Kavita has actually spilled the beans
and is that the reason why the arrest
has taken place we are given to
understand primarily on the basis of
certain statements that were recorded in
the last few months which includes
witness baguna Redi apart from that Bui
Babu and Arun pilai their statements
were quite crucial because For the First
Time the name of Arvin krial actually
figured and they' have specifically
spoken about the meeting that took place
between
and
kav that was between Kavita
and there is a money Trail because
that's of course there is of course
there is a money trail that they are
looking at but one has to understand and
not fall into the Trap of what the am
ADI party wants everyone to believe that
when you say money Trail there would be
WS of cash lying around that's not what
happens because there is a haala
transaction that is taken place and
let's not forget there is also the role
of satender Jen satender Jen was
actually uh questioned by the
enforcement director because it turns
out that the transactions that have
essentially taken place for the Goa
election has happened through haala
transactions multiple haala transactions
and an out outdoor broadcasting
advertising company was actually paid
allegedly by the amadm party and this
money that was actually paid was the
alleged Kickbacks received in the
lickers camp that money went in for the
Goa elections and that is the reason why
every time the am admi party says where
is the money the response that comes in
from sources within the enforcement
director that it is perhaps laughable to
expect that someone would have kept the
money in some sort of a bank Locker when
the money is actually moving around
through haala operators that is the
reason why they say that what is
important here is witness statements and
these are statements that are taken
under oath these are statements that
have been recorded under Section 50 of
the pmla act and it stands before the
court that is the reason why they are
quite confident that the court will take
cognizance of this matter and in the
remand that is going to be produced
tomorrow which is expected to be a
detailed remand including the statements
that were shown before the chief
minister the chief minister was shown
the statements of maguna Redi and a few
others to which there was no response
that has been given in fact in the
grounds of arrest that have been shown
they've also indicated the fact that
shown the statements say when he was
confronted with that he has he the
respons
the responses the responses were evasive
he hasn't he hasn't responded to any of
those statements that came in in fact
there was few other documents that were
produced One crucial document was of a
man called C arind who used to be the
private Secretary of the then deputy
chief minister manise sodia because the
draft policy was actually certain notes
were provided at the chief Minister's
residence to Mr C arind and this was
just before the the policy was actually
implemented Ed herein came in the
suggestion of changing the profit margin
the profit margin was changed from 5% to
12% and the difference amount the
difference amount is what the
enforcement director says are the
Kickbacks that were allegedly received
by the amadm party these are few details
that are likely to be produced before
the court tomorrow when Arvin krial is
produced before the
court okay viewers as we end with these
pictures now and I'll take a break we're
tracking this I would like to end by
just taking you back exactly 10 years to
January
2014 so it was 10 years and 2 months ago
it was close to midnight like it is
tonight and the difference is that at
that time Arin krial then about 47 years
old seemed to be a young emerging leader
10 years
uh he was camping and sleeping outside
rail B it was a winter day and he was
camping outside rail B he said the
Congress is corrupt there has to be a
roll back of the policy of the Congress
L UPA and he said I'm doing this on
behalf of the
people 10 years later same arind krial
is
arrested he didn't sign the arrest
memo it's a democratically enabled
process
and he's been caught in a case in which
he owes the people and the courts of law
an explanation so today before you
viewers there are three Arin krial the
first Arin krial peush I'll tell you
frankly told me peush are you hearing me
the first arind
krial told me that he will never enter
politics he came to my studio swore by
his family and said I will never enter
politics
the second K arind krial camped in 2014
and said the Congress is corrupt I will
never do business with
it and the third Arin krial today is
with the Congress in a case in which all
his fellow leaders have been
arrested now can he get away by saying I
didn't have signing Powers we'll have to
see what
happens it'll also be interesting to see
what happens to a
party and whether the party can survive
with out the centralized structure
focused around arind krial complex cases
viewers as arind krial spends the night
in
custody well we'll track the story in
politics nothing is impossible I agree I
agree but the excise policy case a
complex one last word here I think nikel
wants to come before that Karan who
hasn't spoken
Karan you know Arab I remember each one
of the instances that you pointed out
and uh it's it's been a sad commentary
on how a man who came about to change
the system how low he has stooped today
he used to say that people should resign
on moral grounds people should not
reject Ed and CBI summons his tweets are
today going viral from 10 years back
that who are those Shameless politicians
who don't show up on Ed and CBI summons
today is one of them he rejected he did
not turn up for eight summons and now
when my friend from op says that oh this
is a threat to democracy this is no
threat to to democracy law taking its
own course nobody is above the law today
the chief minister has serious serious
answering to do and it's only fair that
the Democratic process is rolling out
the way it's rolling out in fact it's a
shame how this man managed to n because
You' been after mandates but alas he
couldn't handle it because of his own
conduct so the interesting thing is that
10 years ago Arin krial anaar and the
entire India against corruption movement
was ask asking for a local bill which
came into being and now today there is a
local in the country which we don't hear
of and the local currently is Justus
khilar the same person who had given the
pmla Judgment wherein it wherein the
court had upheld the powers amendment
that was made to the pmla which has
basically shifted the presumption of
guilt onto the accused which has made it
extremely hard for any Court to Grant
bail in a needy case and by the way for
your viewers the selection Committee of
the local has the majority of the
government that's all I have to say by
the way I will just correct you Manish
sodia is
not thank you very much I'm not taking
this further I'm not taking this further
justice kilar is a very respected judge
he was heading the central Water
Commission you can't be convenient on
things like this we have to understand
the stature of the individual we are
speaking about before we weigh our words
on this ladies and gentlemen fullframe
pictures arind krial he knows there's a
long political battle ahead in politics
and in life it's not over till it's over
but he has a tough road ahead of it and
he knows that I'll see you tomorrow good
night and
goodbye Ami has been ranked India's
number one private university for the
11th year by India Today a testimony to
Ami's worldclass education while
imbibing values and Suns scars in
students government's decision last week
to reduce the import Duty by 15% for
electric vehicle makers who pledge $500
million or rupees 4,150 CR investment in
India is a significant move for the
country and the making India
objective the electric vehicle policy
was notified by heavy Industries
Ministry and is being stirred by the
department for promotion of industry and
internal trade under the ages of
Industries and commerce
Ministry the government incentivization
on EV Imports is likely to benefit
billionaire Ellen musk's
Tesla Vietnamese winfast has also
pledged to contribute from making India
with rupees 4,000 CR EV Factory in Tamil
Nadu
Chinese automaker byd recently launched
its sedan seal in
India India's electric vehicle policy
allows companies to carry forward their
annual import
backlog the electric vehicle policy
permits car makers to import a maximum
of 8,000 EVS into India
annually
EV makers benefiting from incentives
must utilize 35% local
components India's EV policy expects car
makers to achieve 50% DVA or domestic
value addition in next 5
years
I why she said that in in the press
conference yeah yeah but why why she
said that because I didn't do anything
wrong I didn't cheat I didn't dop so
it's better if we read the decision from
Tas that it was a contaminated
supplement was not dopping and I it
never I never had something to do with
dopping so I never doed so I I'm not a
cheater so thank you to the tournament
for giving me the wild card and to have
the possibility to play in such a big
tournament it was great to be back and
only one person being negative about me
is not that important because I have
hundreds of people that giving me love
so I will take that you know with with
the meeting yesterday I don't if you
referred to that with with the pif
there's there's more questions looming
and um you know I don't think many
players are too privy of of information
you know Jay Jay's been trying to be
transparent with with emails based on
you know what's happening not giving he
obviously you can't reveal information
of of of of talks you know that are
ongoing to the membership which
obviously makes sense but he's been
trying to be as transparent as possible
on that front so um I think this is
probably Bridge I'd say leaning more
that way more than set in stone I think
you know the tourist just trying to find
the right way to to push forward and
it's going to be impossible to keep
everybody happy the day after my game I
saw him in a in a restaurant and when I
saw him I went to his table to say hello
to him because I know that he's you know
a big Legend in in in football in in
English football as well so I'm just you
know uh just say hi to him and and I
think some people was at him as well so
he just told me that I have to keep
going having a good season and uh he
told me I was a good footballer so I
think uh you know it's it's a big
compliment coming from such a big player
like
that
[Music]
[Music]
no
from the Delhi Studios of Republic TV
it's time for arnab goswami on the
[Music]
debate
[Music]
[Music]
oh
good evening and welcome viewers viewers
I had predicted yesterday that arind
kajal's arrest is very likely you will
remember we debated it in detail and as
I said it is moving exactly in that
direction now there are two ways of
looking at this one that after his
arrest arind krial supporters will start
a sympathy campaign for
him secondly that like hon sain or k
Kavita both of whom have been arrested
in corruption charges it is unlikely
that arind krial will get any Mass
support given two facts one that the
charges of liquor gate the corruption
charges against him are very serious
chares of lior the corruption charges
against
serious I've got news that krial has
been arrested ladies and gentlemen I'm
breaking that right now shaan is with me
so I'm breaking away from my lead ladies
and Gentlemen let's carry the Big Grid
krial arrested shaan what's the latest
shaan you can confirm that kajal has
been arrested shaan krial arrested first
breaking here on Republic yes much ahead
much much
ahead much ahead much ahead or no before
anyone else Republic TV is now
confirming we have got the 100%
confirmation chief minister of Delhi
Arvin krial has now been arrested by the
enforcement director in a short F from
now Arin krial will be taken out from
here taken to the enforcement director
headquarters and I'm confirming this his
statement has already been recorded
under section
171f of the pmla chief minister Arvin
krial hasn't cooperated with the
enforcement director a confirmation now
coming in that Arvin krial has been
arrested or I'm also getting some more
calls from my sources I'll just quickly
take our viewers to the quick
developments he was confronted today
with some the take a couple of calls I'm
holding it till then ladies and
gentlemen holding it there take the call
stay on air mute the audio him stay on
air let him take the calls ladies and
gentlemen the big in fact in fact in
fact he yeah so take the calls take the
calls you stay on air ladies and
gentlemen shaan is on air you can see
him speaking to his sources we mute the
audio there producers because that's
live news Gathering going on before you
you can see him getting WhatsApp
messages and shaan Sen Ace reporter Ace
television reporter shaan sen breaking
the news of the arrest of arind krial
he's going to move away from the camera
right now as you can see ladies and
gentlemen and arind krial has been
questioned for at least a couple of
hours but he's not been cooperating he
has made it absolutely clear he's in no
mood to cooperate he refused to go to
the Enforcement directorate office he
told the joint director of the
enforcement directorate that he will not
cooperate he said that he will not move
out he was setting terms and
conditionalities the joint director is
the same director ladies and gentlemen
the same director who has questioned and
arrested uh K Kavita earlier he was
confronted with statements he was
confronted with proof he was told by the
enforcement director
that they have come with a sth of
information that they need to speak to
him about it but Arin krial is buying
time and the whole strategy of Arin
krial and the amadm party is to have a
whole group of people outside whole
group of people outside you know who can
sort of you know do this buildup let's
get the amadm party spokesperson also
live right now ladies and gentlemen way
ahead of any other network way ahead way
way ahead of any other network way ahead
of any other channel breaking the news
of the arrest of arind krial here on
Republic and uh we are now uh we'll be
joined by Akay marate in just sometime
aay marate is with us Akay marate
spokesperson of the am admi party aadmi
party Chief Delhi chief minister arind
krial has been arrested we can confirm
right now should he not have cooperated
earlier should he have waited for nine
summons moment of Reckoning for the
aadmi party and he's refusing to go to
the Ed office what if what does all of
this
indicate AE non-cooperation at this
level
will not be seen well by the courts all
of this Arab enforcement directorate is
a extortion Department of the Bia J
party it is not taken seriously by
anybody except for those who are blind
bucks of the bhia Jan party so I
understand that there are sympathizers
of the Ed who think that Arvin krial
should have just walked into the Ed
office gotten arrested on right on day
one but Arvin krial is an honest leader
who will get reprieve from the courts
eventually and he has chosen the
difficult part arrested Your Leader has
arrested sir your leader is under arrest
now can I complete my point you can
celebrate it I understanding your leader
has been arrested should he not I'm not
celebrating I'm saying that should he
not go on his own should he not go on
his own to the Ed
office I'm not celebrating I'm breaking
a story should he not go on his he wants
to go to the Ed office he might as well
go to
the because the party takes all the
leaders against has
and then the
lead those are dropped so have done the
same can we have the shots and not the
archive shots ad running right now when
we have live shots from the spot there
are drone shots there are live shots I'm
telling the producers to keep the live
shots along with shavan we have multiple
cameras on the spot no archive shots
please not right now okay and shaan you
have more details shaan tell me more
shaan who broke the news first about the
arrest shaan tell me more shaan tell me
more well in fact shaan if you can hear
me now right now well in fact right now
right now the arrest I can I can I can
on no arrest arrest memo will be served
arrest memo will be
visual of arrest is going to be read out
to the Chief Minister I'm told that I'm
I'm told I'm told that there is a sense
of you know that there has been a brief
altercation between the chief minister
and the enforcement director officers
pretty much what happened uh with chief
minister Hein too right now because it
is going to be important that Arvid
krial signs that arrest memo the moment
that please do
this
inv Ed
CBI
M mry or M
C
AR
zafur Islam is joining the debate with
aay marati ladies and gentlemen I'm
staying with the shots throughout I'm
staying with the shots throughout the a
lot of security personel can I have the
shots on the air maximum time of the
screen on the shots ladies and gentlemen
can I have the shots on air constantly
Aditi because the view viewers want to
see the full frame pictures right now
that we have from arind kajal's
residence thank you so much thank you we
stay with the pictures there what the am
admi party has been trying to do ladies
and gentlemen what you're seeing on the
ground is that they're trying to get
thousands and thousands and hundreds of
workers to the ground to start political
protest the challenge at this point of
time will be to take arind krial out
from his residence and to the Ed
headquarters which is already being
given maximum security So to avoid a
political confrontation things have to
move very very fast uh these are
pressure tactics obviously the aadmi
party is a party mobilized in Delhi they
will do everything possible to stop
arind krial from being taken to create
some kind of a Law and Order situation
on the ground out there we have the BJP
facing off with the op on the debate on
both sides of the screen s Zafar Aslam
joining the debate right now are you
fearing a Law and Order situation here
right now with AE marate on the screen
and ake is this very bad form nine
summons you dodge 10 summons you've been
given you refuse to cooperate you tell
the Ed you will not cooperate you
instruct them on what they should be
doing this is after the thrashing that
you have got you've got a thrashing in
the high court the high court has pulled
you up you lost your case there and now
you're trying to block the
arrest you trying to block an arrested
leader a marate from being taken into
custody a on the right can respond can I
can I respond now anab I think you have
been misinformed that we got a thrashing
in the high court in the high court the
court asked the enforcement directorate
to show even one single piece of
evidence that they have against Mr Arin
krial and the Ed was not able to show
even your interpretation is Holy and
completely incorrect in the high court
today in the high court today you went
and asked them can I have you on air on
the right hand side and and and the
other guest on the left the debate is on
now a marate today in the cour today in
the court let me finish let me finish
today in the court you said please
please issue instruction
please issue instructions one minute I
am speaking over you because I'm
countering you can I just come in please
okay and in the court today you went and
said you went and said can I have you on
the screen I can't see you on the screen
so I can't take this debate forward
Aditi thank you yeah so the question is
today in the court you went and said
that I should not be arrested and the
court said I am giving you no such
guarantee you demanded you said I should
not be arrested the court did not give
you any guarantee did you ask for
protection from arrest and not get it am
I right or wrong there can I finish my
point now the court said the court asked
the enforcement directorate are you
planning to arrest do you have any
evidence against him the Ed said that we
have no evidence against him right now
we are not planning to
arrest speaking for so long that is can
I just come in please the court then
issued a show notice not what asking
them for explanation C asked for the Ed
for an explanation
why the Ed was supposed to respond by
22nd April completely mistaken and
completely wrong I don't know who's
giving you a low down of the Court you
went to the court one minute one minute
one minute one minute one minute can you
have three Windows there at the bottom
screen today you went to the court one
second one second one just one minute
first ishar is countering you on what
happened in the court today I'm saying
you lost the case in the court you ref
you could not get protection you could
not get protection from coercive action
in
fact trying to ter for an appearance and
I said that yesterday as well
is there is epic misinformation being
spread your viewers should know what
happened in The Honorable High Court
both yesterday and today can I make my
point if you could lower his because
this is absolute misinformation being
spread if not outright Li what happened
in the on two days first on the first
day the court orally observed why can
you not appear on the summons because
you have received nine summons now today
there were two basic prayers before the
court one the summons are illegal which
the our party has been saying outside
the court the summons are illegal the Ed
could not summon the summons should be
stayed the summon should be quashed the
second aspect was on which they were
asking the court was interim relief a
protection from cores measures in simple
language a protection from arrest both
these requests neither the summons were
state that means the Ed had the right to
summon him nor was he given any
protection from arrest and the third
part onto what Ed has a good case or not
Ed said during investigation we do not
show the case to any accused that's a
standard procedure by all investigative
agencies but the court insisted that you
show us the courts the proof whatever
files you have that was seen in the
chamber after that was seen in the
chamber The Honorable high court by an
Express order declined to give any
relief declined to give him a relief of
prevention absolutely that is absolutely
f that is a legal how can you not know
the LA absolutely false that is
absolutely false let me let me respond
now let me respond that is absolutely
false that is absolutely false you are
lying you lying on National
Television can iow me to come now me
come
have for the last three minutes without
interrupting him but you did not let me
speak even
for respond a marate before that I want
to update viewers I want to upate
everyone and I have zafur on the left a
marate on the right and zafur zafur I
want to just recap the breaking news
right now uh Delhi chief minister arind
krial has been arrested about five
mobile phones have been seized by the Ed
all the items have been taken into
custody the enforcement directorate
reached his house after arind krial lost
the case earlier today where the Delhi
High Court flatly refused any interim
protection from coercive action at this
stage to krial arind krial had filed an
application seeking interim relief in
his plea challenging the Ed summons and
there was a division bench comprising of
Justice Suresh Kumar Kat and Justice
Mano Jan uh they gave full Liberty to
the enforcement director to file the
response to kajal's application and the
judge said that at this point of time we
cannot give him any protection from
arrest uh the Ed reached his house the
Ed told him the joint director told him
to come to the office kdal said I won't
krial said I refused to move the Ed said
he's not cooperating the Ed has then
arrested krial krial is right now under
arrest the op says he run the government
from lockup and uh we should be and the
op has started mobilizing its workers
outside the house to create some kind of
a physical situation there that is the
sequence of events now zafur Islam
National spokesperson of the BJP former
Raj uh you heard the spokesperson
yes see I I heard I heard the ab
spokesperson I heard the various leaders
of ab speaking same rhetoric which they
are speaking for last several days but
this will not work anymore ARA because
he has to pay for his sins the sins he
has committed everyone knows and they no
authorities has all the evidences
proving him that he is a guilty of
committing crime along with the many
other people involved in liquor scam so
he wants to take all the protection from
this from the legal protection which he
is attempting but there is absolutely no
relief from high court and he will not
get any relief from even from supreme
court because I'm saying because of the
crime he has committed no matter what
the what the spokesperson say no matter
what the leader of other spoke up leader
says but the fact is that that he has
committed a crime he has committed a sin
and he is paying price for that scene
now whether he appeals to Supreme Court
nothing will happen because he every the
agencies have proof and proof has been
shown to the high court and that's is
why High Court didn't give him any
relief from the arrest which he was
thinking that he will get protection
from secondly what is more important
Arab that op is trying to somehow create
Law and Order situation but let me tell
you that no matter whatever they try Law
and Order situation will be maintained
as it has to be maintained and they they
will not be able to disrupt the Law and
Order situation in the state of uh Delhi
because all the merary VES have been
taken by the security people by the
authorities and these these people may
try to disrupt but we will not allow it
to
happen that is more important Point rad
that third very important point that he
was thinking that he is above the law
but today it has been proven if you
commit a crime then law has its own way
how long Listen to
Everybody inter that he has committed a
crime interruped by not to make a single
point throughout the show no you are you
are interrupting me you have to face my
questioning I will certainly question
you but it cannot be a oneway street one
minute one minute it cannot be a oneway
street
one just one minute viewers viewers this
this impression this I I I just want to
to make one point out here that it is
very easy for aay marate or pank Sharma
or Akash deep monei or Mahesh Bala all
of whom are on air and Mr Bala
spokesperson of the BRS to come on air
that this is wrong that is wrong Etc
however I swear by every word of what
I'm saying here tonight viewers and I
know that you believe me I'll tell you
what has happened today viewers first DD
summon 2nd November 2023 arvind krial
doesn't go second D summons 22nd
December AR krial third Su thir January
refuses summons 18 January
AR
February refuses 6 summons 19th February
arinal refuses 7th summons 26th February
arind krial says nothing doing 8th Ed
summons 287th February arind krial says
I will not cooperate 9th Ed summons 17th
March 2024 and Arin krial says I don't
care I don't care what you are saying
you of the BJP you are a spokesperson of
the BJP that's why I don't care what you
say what you say does not matter you
stand with you stand
with you don't care for the court you
don't care two people on the screen
please one minute you don't care for the
court you don't care for the law you
don't care for the facts you don't care
for the high court and the high court
has turned you down you sellout you're a
sellout of the BJP that's what you are
you can say what you want don't believe
you a neutral person you can say what
you you you can say what you want I will
say because you are
running you are going to this way you
will only burst an artery and achieve
nothing one minute one minute one minute
can I can I zaf zaf one minute zaf I can
completely understand I can completely
understand I can completely
toally I can completely I can I I'm not
celebrating I'm reporting it you are you
the one was very hot under the
completely understand because to know
that your viewers need to know that
anami is with the BJP and he will
celebrate Arin K being arrested but what
you will not tell them is two months
before the Loa election an opposition
leader being arrested like that he's a
dictatorship your lead AUP you you you
should take responsibility for dictator
one minute now if you quiet I will give
it back to you nice and proper I will
give it back to you nice and proper but
but but one minute but one minute I
request everyone tonight I no no no no
no no no Z Za Islam one minute one
minute one minute one minute one minute
one minute s zaf Islam 1 minute AKA
marate has taken it too far and he will
now have to listen to me if he's not a
coward he will have to listen to me if
he is a coward he will interrupt me I
have listened listen to him and I'm now
going to give it back to him and unless
he's a coward he will listen to me now
and I'm sure he's not a
coward today ladies and gentlemen fact
is that the court refused to pass an
order granting interim protection from
arrest to
kajal and the court said and I quote we
have heard both the sides however at
this stage we are not inclined to pass
any order
exactly this is called a defeat in the
high court exactly and you can cry
scream call anyone a BJP spokesperson
but it is a fact second point the court
emphasized the court emphasized it's not
the BJP the court so you be careful what
you say because kajal's lawyer singi had
said today that Ed has filed six charge
sheets 25,000 documents what is the
purpose of the summons then the court
said Akay marate and you are probably
unaware therefore uninitiated you are
saying things without knowing the court
said and I quote the words of the Court
unless arind krial appears please note
viewers unless arind krial
appears how will he know what
information documents the Ed ultimately
wants from
him so the court give an instruction
Akash de that Arin krial must
appear yes you will attack the court now
yeah I will attack the court let me let
me reply a p back uh just I just now
he'll attack the court now he'll attack
the court listen to no no now he says I
will attack the court he'll attack
everybody today listen to No No he said
I didn't say the op spokesperson said I
will attack the court one minute Akash
watch The Words the op National
spokesperson said I will attack the
court now so attack the court sir I'll
give you the fact sir attack the court
sir I'll give I'll give you spokesperson
AA marate just said yes I will attack
the
court no no right to
disagree said nothing when I quoted the
court you saying I disagree with one
minute I want to put some facts
here you to I respect you so much but
today you put out the court proceeding
selectively sir while substantiate my
argument today the today The Honorable
ASG who is a lawyer of Ed said in the
court that neither Ami party or Arvin
krial is Accused in this matter of
excise scam alleged excise scam even
that went to the other level where the
court asked enforcement directory to
present material evidence against Arvin
kial to which enforcement direct said in
the court that material has is been
investigated so the material not
sufficing so material has been
investigated cannot be presented in
courot quote
unquote so the evidence was not suffice
to arrest or to produce in a court of
law against Arvin Kel as per the
enforcement director lawyer Mr Raju who
is the additional solicitor general
third point that Delhi completely
completely completely said something
completely and
incorrect oneck enforcement to file that
reply to Arin K what is the final
judgment
by by the high court did he did
this is beyond
misin I'm not making people pull the
chairs and sit
yourself no no no no while everybody
part will be attacking today we know
that in 2018 no no let me ask you one
question let me ask him one question
forget about the proceeding what is the
final outcome what is the final outcome
did he get any protection from the
did he get any protection from the court
did he get any Rel from the court he
didn't get any Rel from the court that's
why he has been
arrested the point is the point is
Akash let me see if shaan can give me an
input can abish and aswara come into the
studio like I asked them to come at 9:00
today can they come in please on their
own walk into the studio please thank
you very much and now and now I'm on the
debate with I'm making a point here this
is
pleas now now I'm making a point here
now I'm making a point here just one
minute please just one minute just one
minute just one minute just one minute
just one minute
see today the high court told arind
krial why don't you file an anticipatory
bail application in the court
yet okay now the Ed in fact assured the
court Akash deep I don't know to what
extent you can lie but obviously you
have your own limits the court asked the
Ed tell us what evidence you have
against him for arrest is there any
document against krial in response to
which the Ed told the court my Lord we
have the
documents and ishkaran says that in
confidence the investigating agency
shared certain documents
yes yeah so the investigating agency
shared certain material in confidence
with the
materi
isv person under investigation gets to
have the investigative agenc documents
they don't know the basic law of the
land no investigative agency at stage of
Investigation gives documents to anybody
who under the scanner that's the
LA cover it is given to judges
the basic law of the land I do not know
how much misinformation they can spread
on National
Television this is
not gives
not SC does note minute I'm not getting
the audio
clear
I uh one minute years thise has been on
Foria has been in jail for more than one
not a single piece of has been
presented in the studio I can't hear him
a AE listen to
me the court asked abishek Manu singi
who is kajal's legal representative you
are a citizens of the country
they are giving you summons why don't
you appear when you are given the
summons what is preventing you from
attending the
summons to which kajal said I'm not
avoiding I need protection from arrest
because I am not a common criminal I
need protection from arrest today the
court says I am not going to give you
protection from
arrest after which the Ed went to
question kajal and told him to cooperate
he did not cooperate after nine summons
he has been arrested I think that as
much drama as you may want to do the
Delhi high court has rebuked kajal's
lawyer for giving a flimsy excuse of not
knowing whether the summons are sent for
krial as accused or witness the court
said pursuant to the summons if you
attend the call only then will you get
to know the Delhi high court has denied
to entertain kajal's argument that
summons are a trap to arrest him please
understand what atii says in our press
conference that there is no evidence is
not the final word the Ed resp you have
to understand nobody you see that Ed
will not arrest a Delhi chief minister
unless it feels it is sitting on
sufficient dividence to talk how long
are you going to speak can I why AR you
how long you have made statements today
which are Unworthy of you and I I am
compelled to respond to you factually
without descending to your personal diet
tribe I will not descend to you resp I
will not desend to your level I am
telling you today that this would not
have happened toist no no no question is
not you must show some patience I
completely commiserate with you your
leader is arrested there problem in
party which will unravel but you need to
understand this is what has happened uh
one can I respond or no is this a both
of you just hear from everybody get
latest what part Le has been
arrested midnight of joke that is
playing
out Str of the part is to hold on a
Marat your leaders are having a second
thought you said you will go then you
said you will not now you're again going
the legal team of the amadm party has
already approached the registar office
of the Supreme Court you are waiting a
response you want a midnight hearing
after kesal being arrested right now
abish Manu sing came on record just few
minutes prior said no we are not now now
you've already now you've already
approached zoom in on me zoom in on me
now no no no one just just one minute
just one minute options running out here
abishek for aadmi party do you think
they'll get the Urgent hearing why
should the court give them an urgent
hearing they might get an urgent why on
what grounds on what on what grounds
would the Supreme Court give an urgent
hearing would he be treated like a vvp
for the simple reason there is a Lobby
or no if there is a Lobby no no one
minute I don't understand this if there
is a Lobby abishek does not mean the
Supreme Court gives an urgent hearing
will you I anyone any citizen of the
country get an urgent hearing then why
the question being why should Arin krial
get an urgent hearing when you were
arrested you got an urgent hearing just
FY no I did not get an urgent hearing I
did not get an urgent hearing no you are
wrong a you are wrong a second time you
are wrong you are very wrong you are
absolutely wrong I went through the
whole process I went through all the
courts I went through the Sessions Court
I went to the high court and then I went
to the Supreme Court you are a liar I
did not get an urgent hearing factually
incorrect you don't know what you're
talking about you made multiple mistakes
tonight you are unprepared for the
gravity of the situation and you need to
understand this you cannot you cannot
you cannot get away anymore and by the
way and by the way and by the way by the
way by the way unlike Your Leader even
when param Singh interrogated me I went
every time unlike Your Leader I did not
avoid 10
sum now if you're frustrated
desperate
you
making hold on don't get desperate like
that has been in jail any trial how is
that okay how is that a democracy how is
that has to be on the left hand side of
the screen process a you don't deci
legal process is fraud has been
compromised by the why can't you put
on
theary right now is anybody who is
against the part gets trapped in the
legal
system don't know what what discussed
don't want to want what been discussed
only want to see what was the final
outcome final outcome was only one thing
that he didn't get any relief from the
court that is something which everyone
should
know he has committed crime court has
seen all the
documents all the evidence say that
based on that he didn't get didn't give
him any
Rel something which is important for us
to know what was discussing the inside
the court is something which is not
relevant for us to discuss because we do
not know everything what happened there
but we know the consequences what
happened the final outcome so what
happened to a what the consequence of a
what was the
consequence realize the consequence he
has
committed
who is aligned with es the law for
everybody who aligned with the BJP
escapes jail time and escap the
law La through
the he going through the legal
process the BJP there is absolutely law
for
everyone you fail that there is no law
for you you above the law
only of Delhi who is above the law okay
Shan hasi Shan Shan cut to Shan Shan now
please sh with to understand cut live
will arind krial Ste down given the fact
that he has always taken the position
that any corruption
allegation a person in public life will
have to step down are we looking at the
chief minister of Delhi stepping down
with the arrest taken
was the chief minister of Delhi is the
chief minister of Delhi and Will Remain
the chief minister suggesting that the
government of Delhi would be running
from the jail absolutely it will be
running from thar jail because this is
the clear modest operandi of the bhartia
Jan party put allegations of corruption
under pmla on all opposition leaders
arrest them why do they file cases only
under pmla because that is the only act
in this country under which it is
virtually impossible to get bail as a
senior leader would agree that there was
no relief coming in from the court Prim
ofai there was evidence against your
other leaders the then deputy chief
minister how is it you saying there's no
evidence absolutely where is the
proceeds of crime can the Ed after 2
years say they have recovered even one
rupe from any am admy party leader they
can't where is the evidence where is the
proceeds of crime they have not been
able to show any proceeds of crime
despite having hundreds of officers
investigate the case thousands of raids
and the timing of the arrest makes it
very clear tell me someone as a senior
as a senior leader as an IRS officer
himself Mr krial says that tell me
whether am I a suspect or a witness is
that even a logical explanation it's a
logical question because the fact of
under the I'm asking only under the
section 50 under Section 17 of the pmla
act it is the prerogative
agents question for you why is it
all
against opposition leaders that's a
question that you should ask the
enforcement director yes absolutely the
second question why is it that all
against the opposition leaders do not
happen under the crpc ACT they do not
happen under the prevention of
corruption act the only one act in which
cases get
fired but there is a corruption Case by
the Central Bureau of Investigation
precisely because that is the only law
in the country it was the law was put in
place to prevent terrorism to prevent
trading of narcotics today but it's also
money whether shaan can you ask her
whether she thinks vij and is innocent
can shaan hear
me well well can you hear me one of the
fact is that right now party
leaders you know I unfortunately I know
because she's already stepped out
because right now if if I can just show
you what's really happening on the other
side is uh right now most of the Amad
Party leaders have come on the road
that's the current situation reason why
Wonder speed coming in ad if it is
coming we'll cut to it is it coming in
right now one sec I was just told that
samit patra's feed is also coming in
we're seeing live BJP reactions coming
in can we cut to that please can we cut
to it immediately please thank you very
much moving ahead on the story thank you
let's hear the reactions viewers idea
the idea of corruption the idea of
minting money through a I would say
through excise policy I mean this is
unheard of louder a CM a CM who talks
about education louder in the
studio
Ladi gentl m is
spokesperson ad please cut out uh Mahesh
Bala is spokesperson of the BRS Mr Bala
today arind krial was confronted by some
statements we are told now we are also
told that the joint director of the
enforcement directorate who went there
to question and then arrest arind krial
is the same officer I think Raj who
arrested K Kavita so is it possible that
your leader K Kavita has made certain
statements about the role of arind
krial because things have moov very fast
after kavita's
arrest no I think this is not from the
last arrest of Kavita G because this
case is going on Investigation is going
on for the last two years but we need to
look at the timing and how it is
motivated it's a it's elections are
coming in the next month and probably in
the month of April and May but you know
the arrest took place of kav G and Arin
krial G now why why they took the last
two years even to investigate and arrest
but and other thing we need to question
is but is are there any cases on the BJP
leaders or even the NDA leaders it's
only the Ed is investigating only the
opposition's leaders see like the all
these Ed pmla cases are filed and
investigated and arrested all the oppos
o leaders only that's what like the
India Mr Bala all the all the all the
all the as you are aware all the all the
opposition leaders went together to the
Supreme Court and says we are being
collectively targeted the Supreme Court
said this has no basis and sent you back
the Supreme Court said these are
political matters you can't bring them
in the area of the Court they are not
legally tenable arguments so the Supreme
Court has already dismissed that you
know that argument of victimization now
we need to go by what the courts are
saying pankaj this I don't think this is
going to lead to any Mass sympathy
campaign it already doesn't seem to me I
mean the op was expecting that people
will be out on the streets protesting
morning day and night it doesn't seem to
be
happening see the Crux of the matter is
that too much of anything could could
destroy sorrow laughs excessive Weeps
let me tell you arrest of kajal is going
to Boom rank politically very badly on
BJP don't say thatal is not going to get
any sympathy out of this he will for
many years and especially for a few last
months the entire nation is debating the
issue of selective treatment by the
investigative agencies of Modi
government it is charitable attitude
towards the leaders of the ruling
dispensation and its bullying approach
bullying approach towards opposition
leaders is the actual cause of concern
why two sets of execution methodologies
for the similar laws people are asking
this and it has become so obvious in
last 10 years of Modi regime that you
ask any commoner on the streets on 30th
October
2023 on 30th October 2023
Panki on 30th October
2023 uh the Court Supreme Court said we
will not give bail to Manish
sodia and the am admi party was shocked
am admi party before that and I want to
go back to this abishek say zafur Islam
and AK are on the debate cour also said
there is a money Trail the Supreme Court
said there is a money Trail the Supreme
Court said that a money trail of not 1
CR 2 CR 30 3 CR but
338 crores has been tentatively
established that is not true I do not
understand after that how any am admy
party spokesperson can come and say that
the courts are with us the law is with
us in fact can the Supreme Court had
made the fact that the money trail of
338 crores was tentatively established
the basis for denying the bail of the
former deputy chief minister of Delhi m
sodia it's as clear as that these are
the words of the court and they also
said the new yes so AE are these the
words of the court or not you just
respond with saying yes or no then you
can say what you want this ispr cour is
this what the Supreme Court said or
not is this no no no no no no no you
can't avoid the question anymore is this
what the Supreme Court said no you can't
avoid the
question no I asking you and don't do
with me please I calling you up I will
not descend to your level please please
do not please do not I'm showing you
respect don't try to go too familiar
with me speaking to a senior journalist
you don't cross the line you let me
speak yeah but it doesn't matter man
whatever you say I'm still calling you
I'm calling you out respectfully what do
I do with your respect what do I do with
I don't care what you do one minute one
minute I don't care what you do I am
asking you a question is that what the
court said is that what the court said
let me speak you let me speak is that
what the court said let let me speak is
this what the court
said the 338 money Trail did the Supreme
Court refer to the 338 money Trail or
not they or they is I enough is
it did the Supreme Court mention so he
say he can't answer the question that is
precisely the problem out here the
simple question being if you are asked
was there a 338 CR money Trail you don't
want to answer the question but Akash
there's no running away from
that this is the fundamental question
you'll be asked in the courts of public
opinion
also see no no one minute let Akash take
that yeah yeah I I'll answer the
question you are right that The
Honorable Court said that whatever the
profits made in this policy that will be
considered as proceeds of crime that is
that CES to three 31 CR I acknowledge
that but the profits made by it was by
the companies not by the there was no
money Trail to Manish isia sanj Singh or
even arind kaj till now there is
otherwise Ed would have with the tax of
money now Z Islam please don't Heckle
please don't Heckle please let me speak
sir please now now one of the most
important factor I want to tell today is
that normally today while all of us are
talking about krial being arrested sanj
s who was named as terrorist by up
police in 2018 joined B J party so
terrorist only
all I'm trying to tell you that no no
all I'm trying to tell you that you how
come you are giving him a certificate
how come you are giving him a
certificate when court has not given the
certificate how how can you give the
certificate court has enough evidence
agencies have enough evidence against
him there money there's enough evidence
against him the all the proceeds of has
gone to him he is the
benefici not he the only beneficiary the
deputy chief minister is also the
beneficiary we will respond to that
separately all we need to discuss about
discuss separately right
we accept accepted proceed The Pride
through un practice unfair practices are
not tell me why no no no I'm asking you
about K why are you trying to digress
I'm not trying to digress we will have a
debate separately we discuss everything
about it but why are you trying to
digress I'm asking a direct question did
he get did he get any relief from the
court no did he get any relief from the
court or not no he didn't get any relief
why because there's enough
you must understand what would have
given definitely some relief and he
would have been given protection from
the arrest since he did get the
protection definitely mean meaning that
there is enough evidence against him
like there is enough
evidence the way the case is likely to
go the way the case is likely to go one
minute one minute the way the case is
likely to go viewers people are asking
what will happen next abishek you see
now that it is a question of a sitting
chief minister who has been
arrested I don't think the agencies can
afford to takeing chief minister is
arrested H resigned H Shen resigned so
in his case he's a sitting chief
minister technically who is arrested
then the court therefore has to the
agency has to prove that krial has
violated the prevention of moneya
laundering act so obviously they would
have had to force a Money Trade see it's
not the CBI which has arrested
him are you sure here that the agent CBI
case also there's a CBI case but the Ed
has chosen to arrest him which means
that it's an act of finality by the EDI
yes so they cannot take a risk of
arresting a sitting chief minister
without and facing the embarrassment yes
without in the court of being pulled up
by the court saying that you do not have
reasons to arrest him yes so would they
take that that risk they would not I
mean and look at the kind of stance
Supreme Court has taken over the last
couple of weeks or they've been very
tough and uh there is no Indulgence
whatsoever with whatever position the
government takes so obviously agencies
like the enforcement directorate in CBI
which are uh under attack from the
position they would not take any chance
whatsoever in so far as documents
evidence and collation of data is
concerned correct correct so I I believe
and all those people who are attacking
these agencies on the panel also would
understand that when everything is
happening under such a glare lens of
media and Court scrutiny the agencies
would be very cautious and conscious of
the fact that their work is under great
scrutiny and today they shared their
work with the honorable Judge today the
Ed showed every document they have all
proofs they have mail Trail money Trail
everything to the to the to the high
court judge and then let judge
whether you want to give protection or
not the judge did not give protection
why
are so so fundamentally I think I'll
take a break at this point viewers uh
when I come back I'm going to go live
because Arin krial has been arrested but
my last information is on the ground
that he has not been physically taken to
his residence yet now how do I look at
it viewers the liquor gate scam is under
investigation these are pictures here
let's hear the Ambient
sound okay these
are I'm not getting audio here in
the okay so so so so ladies and
gentlemen Manish Soria who is one of the
accused in the Delhi lior gate scam case
former deputy chief minister of Delhi he
has also got multiple criminal charges
slapped on him by the CBI what I'm
trying to say is this is not just a pmla
case this is not just a Ed Case this is
also a criminal case under investigation
under IPC section 20b so there are
serious charges out here uh there is no
doubt that there was a liquor scam the
only difficulty for the agencies will be
that arind krial so far as I know has
not had signing Authority on any of
these cases so you know the people
who've been signing off on the files
have been Manish sodia and others
however is there something else which
can be established which corroborates
his role viers krial arrested I'm back
in a few
minutes lha elections are just round the
corner and if you are someone who is
wondering how postal ballots work then
this video is for
you
firstly let's understand a concept
called postal voting postal voting also
known as absentee voting is a method of
voting in which electors cast their
ballots by mail rather than person at a
polling station postal ballots offer a
convenient and secure way to cast your
vote without having to leave your home
however not everyone is eligible to
apply for postal voting there is a
particular Criterion that you have to
tick before you can register
yourselfs so let us show you what is the
magnitude by which we are doing these
elections
we have 997 CR registered
voters more than the combined voters of
uh a few continents put together America
Europe Australia all many put together
over 10.5 lak polling
stations
and 1.5 polling officials and security
officials conduct those elections more
than 55 lakh EVMS 4 lakh vles
ele to
the
El commission Legacy 16 presidential
elections 16 vice presidential elections
a truly gold
standard it's a gold standard in the
entire election
management the postal ballot method is
particularly used for those individuals
who are unable to vote in person due to
various reasons such is being engaged in
essential services on Election Day the
eligibility criteria for postal ballots
vary depending on the specific election
and jurisdiction however some common
categories of eligible voters
[Music]
include members of the Armed Forces
paramilitary forces and other government
employees deployed on Election Duty far
from their home constituencies
government officials and polling staff
who are assigned duties at polling
stations other than their own media
persons on Election Duty who are
carrying authorized letters from the
election commission can cast their votes
via postal ballots four are essential
workers those employed in essential
services like metros Railways Healthcare
are eligible to vote via postal ballots
in the loksabha and four State Assembly
elections besides state police Personnel
on Election Duty for calling personnel
and Embassy staff on postings abroad can
also use this facility to apply for a
postal ballot eligible voters must
submit an application to the returning
officer of their respective constituency
the application form typically requires
personal details water identification
information and the reason for seeking a
postal ballot the RO verifies the
eligibility of the applicant and issues
the postal ballot if the criteria are
met the the process of postal voting is
quite simple but at the same time
sensitive too as all the procedures must
be followed with utmost care once the
application is approved the RO sends the
postal ballot to the voter's registered
address the ballot package typically
includes the ballot paper a declaration
form a secrecy sleeve and a prepaid
return envelope the voter marks their
preferred candidate on the ballot paper
in the secrecy sleeve to ensure
confidentiality the water completes the
declaration form providing their
signature and other relevant details
later on the voter fixes the postage
stamp provided and mails the return
envelope to the designated address
within the specific time various steps
are taken to ensure fairness and
integrity of postal voting and various
safeguarding methods that are
implemented that include strict
eligibility criteria and an application
process clear guidelines for marking and
returning postal ballots and scrutiny of
postal ballots to identify and reject
invalid
votes postal ballots offer a valuable
option for eligible voters who are
unable to vote in person by ensuring
smooth voting postal ballots promote
inclusivity and accessibility in the
electoral process the general election
for 543 loab seats will be held in 7
phases from the 19th of April with
counting to be held on the 4th of June
elections to stay legislatures of Andra
Pradesh arunachal Pradesh orisha and
Sikkim will also be held during the same
period so are you eligible to cast your
vote through postal ballot let us know
in the comments
[Music]
below manest
United
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
for
[Music]
let's straight away go and have a
conversation with gulen L ofin limited
and understand and how are we looking at
the textile industry specifically in
Gujarat and elsewhere in the country
thank you so much sir for joining us
here on Republic TV uh first up if I
could speak to you about your sector and
talk to you about textile and talk to
you about where we are today in the
sector and
specifically
from the Delhi Studios of Republic TV
it's time for Arab goswami on the
[Music]
debate
[Music]
welcome back ladies and gentlemen to the
debate and now it's time for the
nation's sharpest opinion the big story
today is that arind krial has been
arrested now I followed arind kajal's
career extremely closely for the longest
period of time in fact at some point of
time people said that I was responsible
for providing sort of media support for
the am admi party's predecessor which
was India against corruption and I
always held the view that we were not
supporting an individual we were at that
point of time supporting a cause viewers
I clearly remember at that time Arin
krial came into my Studios and promised
to me that he would never join politics
so Arin krial is known to change his
position and nobody knows that more than
me however today he's in a vulnerable
position what is my reading of the
situation what I would like to tell you
on the nation's sharpest opinion this
evening dear viewers and if you look at
the situation very very logically is
that it's absolutely an allout case now
either arind krial gets fully exonerated
in which case it's going to be supremely
embarrassing for the BJP or arind krial
gets convicted in which case it is going
to be the very end of his political
career there is no Halfway House in
cases like this this and therefore arind
krial knows that the BJP knows that the
central government knows that now if
arind krial after being arrested gets
the support of the courts the courts say
there is no case
[Music]
no it'll be a body blow for the central
government before the general election
and I think knowing all of these
variables there would have been some
very cool political calculation done by
the central government that if it is
going in for the arrest of Arin
it better have enough information to
back up and build a case against him now
on the other side Arin kajal's entire
political career has been built not on
the freebies which he started giving
when he was chief minister it has been
built fundamentally on his initial
positioning as an anti-corruption
Crusader whether he was in reality one
or not we can't argue about it some
people say it's arguable but the fact is
that when he started his political
career he was seen to be one of the
followers of anah haare and it was the
anti-corruption campaign a lot viewers a
lot has changed since the spring of 2011
and the spring of
2024 in these 13 years arind krial has
become an absolutely hardened
politician Arin krial knows that it's
all out Arin krial has made fundamental
mistakes he has used taxpayers money to
build himself an extremely expensive
home and things like that which are not
good for public perception but he's also
been extremely careful on no document or
government policy has he ever taken his
own signature which means he has always
tried to look at the long-term political
career that he has ahead of him and uh
try and wait what works for him what
does not work for him and try and if
required put the blame on his colleagues
whether it be Manish Soria whether it be
satendra Jen but made sure that none of
that ttin ever comes back to him so
viewers also tonight another point to
make is that the congress party is in a
spot
because this is the very Congress that
has said that the entire krial
government the entire kajal cabinet is
immersed in corruption and when did they
say that they said that in 2023 and as
an icing on the cake the congress party
said the chief minister should be
arrested for corruption I would like to
remind the viewers tonight that it'll be
very difficult for the congress party to
do what it has to do after this because
the congress party had said that because
of liquor gate arind krial is drenched
in corruption and arind krial should be
arrested in liquor gate this was till a
few months back 2023 arind krial
pretended to be the beacon of the anti
vvip racism he was against the lbti but
ladies and gentlemen this is the same
krial is doing in his own source viewers
therefore some people would say it is
time for the mask of morality or rather
immorality of Arin krial to come off it
is time for the people to see his real
face out here the very people who
believed in his story of being the arm
admy with having the strong values of
the middle class will now Define his
future so viewers these are some very
you know clear questions that emerge out
of the situation tonight let me go first
to shaan to get a sense of what's
happening shaan it's been a long time
it's been a long time how many people
have turned up outside kajal's house and
why is he not being taken out
yet and what's what's going to happen
now that he's been
arrested
well
well in fact the arrest memo has already
been served in fact the grounds of
arrest has already been read out to the
Chief Minister the reason for the delay
that we are seeing right now is because
of a Law and Order situation uh that is
basically developing outside the chief
Minister's resident I'll just quickly
show you uh these are the images of
senior aadmi party leaders who are out
on the road right now you have aishi
here and several of the other aadmi
party leaders now this as you can see
right now know this entire area has been
completely blocked because of short
while back you've had senior Amad party
leaders blocking this road not allowing
any movement to take place so you have
had the rapid action force that has been
brought in on both sides so on the other
side it's on the other side is where the
chief Minister's residence is that area
has been completely uh barricaded we're
expecting that to happen in a short
while from now meanwhile there has been
an additional deployment that has been
brought in uh that to at the Enforcement
directorate's office so in a short while
from now it's expected that he'll be be
taken out that's where a medical
examination will also take place but yes
there is a Law and Order situation
building outside the chief Minister's
residence okay shaan is there abish know
you mentioned about the fact that krial
cut his teeth into politics with with
anti vvip movement but look at what's
happening really almost 5 to 7 kilm jams
is what we are getting to understand
shaan was just mentioning about the law
and daughter situation people are coming
out blocking roads and obviously this is
being mobilized and orchestrated so this
is not following the letter and spirit
of the law this is trying to Hoodwink
manipulate Etc in terms of when you're
facing the law also also the fact that
you were mentioning about arind krial
not signing any document now there is
this section in IPC now the BNS would
have a different number uh in the bhan N
Sita uh section 33 read along with
section 120b of the IPC which is
conspiracy taken together with common
intention and common objective then you
don't need a signature because if you're
part of a conspiracy there is common
intent if something is proved for one it
proves for everyone involved in the
conspiracy right so I think so I think
that that bit that bit of homework
obviously the agencies would have done
so the whole attempt here awara has been
to try and project arind krial as the
ring
Master what they call loely the Kingpin
Kingpin the Kingpin of the scam uh the
the am admi party says that you you this
is a positioning you've created but you
don't have concrete evidence against
kajal yet what's the inner thinking in
government circles within the Ed within
the BJP that you're hearing it's very
clear as far as BJP is concerned BJP
says let the agencies decide and today
the agencies because the allegation
which the amadm party levels onto the
agency that they work on the behalfs of
the government that is the BJP so today
the agency gave all the documents all
the proofs they had to the judge and
allowed what do you mean all the proof
they presented the complete file against
krial and not only krial the whole mail
Trail the whole line of connection
between Samir mahindu Vijay ner all the
people who are involved in this liers
scam and confidential information was
shared with the high court with with the
Delhi high court judge today and then he
was told sir there is only one request
please don't share it with anyone else
and now you decide should protection
been given should protection be given
forget there are approv
there
appr we are still not questioning the
BRS leader said no there is no
connection the day after K kav was was
arrested or now for the first time krial
was made a co-conspirator with an amount
of 100 CR being mentioned by
Ed true so uh I'd like to go across to
sidhart who's on the debate right now
sidhart Sharma of the am admi party and
pratus Kant of the BJP is with us uh we
have with us subasa I see her on the
screen uh
now a point being made here sadhart I
can see I I appreciate the fact that you
are smiling you have a smiling face
tonight your other colleague was so
angry almost exploded on the show aay
marate but you are a man with more
experience uh however the the the the
specific point tonight it's it's futile
to ask you for your reaction because I
know what your reaction will be the
specific point we are coming to tonight
with you sidhart is that uh the court
was was given a
file and pratus please pay attention to
this the the government was very keen to
win the case to make sure that Arin
krial does not get any protection from
arrest so the government went all out
and through additional solicitor general
SV
Raju it placed I am told a full
confidential envelope and file before
the honorable Judge and said milords
here is the information on the basis of
which we have to interrogate him take
action against him him being arind krial
but the court was also requested by the
agency that this is highly confidential
and very explosive information regarding
Mr
krial and I am sharing this with you in
confidence and please do not stop us
from arresting him if necessary The
Honorable High Court saw the file
sidhar and after seeing the file said
you have to cooperate and I'm not going
to give you any protection from
arrest so obviously there is some
information which has been shared with
the
courts some very sensitive
facts some astonishing details perhaps
have been shared by the courts with the
courts so sidat this is going through
legal process
yeah it's not aish anymore it's a very
straightforward accurate legal process
yes uh let me at the very outset tell
you that uh
uh hundreds of nearly 100 years ago we
also saw that when paced with a Bradman
the England cricket team led by Douglas
Jardine resorted to Bodyline bowling now
it was for the people to judge whether
that was right or wrong that was that
was one of the reasons why I was smiling
this is in politics as in sports uh you
you compete you compete everything
becomes fair in war and politics anyway
I'll come to the very specific points
the legal jargon that you were speaking
to and I think the viewers of Republic
TV also have a right to know what
happened today in the courts I'll be
very succinct it'll be very crisp hardly
10 sentences within 10 sentences I end
uh today what happened was arind krial
challenged Ed notices to him the court
gave Ed April 22nd to respond uh if if
earlier as you said the the the court
was apprised of some sensitive
information the court would have said
asked Arin krial to get arrested forth
with or or cooperate with the Ed forth
with it did not do so it the court gave
Ed 22nd April to respond the Ed had
earlier in its own press release has
named arind grial as the top leader of
amadm party but paradoxically in court
today the Ed said that it has neither
named him named him as an accused nor
wants to question him as an Amad party
leader now going further the Ed also
said that it can arrest anybody any time
but it had not done so till that time
now what these things make clear it is
now clear that there is no no money
Trail found either with arind krial as a
person or as an accused now Ed had two
options today after that either respect
law and convince the court on April 22nd
that Arin k was some kind of beneficiary
or the Ed had an option to respect the
BJP and arrest a constitutional figure
who was neither an accused nor a
beneficiary in Ed's own admission now
this was a catch 22 situation for for
BJP it had to arrest arind krial knowing
fully well that it is doing so at its
own Peril and confessing to its Panic
that it does not have answer to Arin
kajal's model of governance it is as
simple as that every even a lay man
today knows that that sub judice matters
can't be acted upon still BJP going
ahead means BJP is so spooked by am admy
party that it can go from illegal to
blatant acts to stop arind krial it is
now crystal clear that after getting
caught pant down today incidentally what
had happened today was at 5:00 the
election commission had also put on on
its website the 8,250 CR illegal money
that BJP had so BJP had go his illegal
funds that public a desperately BJP
needed a headline change and I think
that is what they are trying to do now
as far as amadm party is concerned arind
krial is a model of governance that
model of governance got acceptance not
just in Delhi but Punjab also I think
that you are one minute uh uh uh one
minute uh can I can I can I can I stop
you right there sir absolutely see what
happens is sure what happens what
happens is that I I think that we must
remain keep our Focus
and my focus is on the legal case that
has to be there or not there against Mr
krial before that once let me go across
to Deepak shaan is there of course
Deepak if you can hear me what's your
location what's happening around you
right now what are you hearing about
when Mr krial may be brought out and why
is it taking so much
time right anab uh I'm currently outside
uh the Ed headquarters and behind me if
I could ask my uh video journalist to
pan and show you these are the
barricades that have been set up outside
the Ed headquarters heavy security
deployment has also been put in place at
the Ed office and Beyond these
barricades that's where Arin kial will
be taken and further questioning will be
done and what we are also getting to
understand here is that four companies
of paramilitary force as well as 100
police Delhi police force have been
deployed across the national capital all
the roads leading from the Delhi Chief
Minister's residence till the Ed office
uh the entire route has been jam-packed
and uh the police deployment is also
high in the roads leading up to the Ed
headquarters so what we are given to
understand is that shortly Arin krial
will be brought to the Ed headquarters
where rml Health officials will carry
out his medical examination similar uh
situation as to what happened with
Sanjai Singh and satender Jane as well
so similar process will be followed
first Arin krial will be brought to uh
the Ed headquarters after which a
medical examination will happen rml
Health officials will also reach the Ed
headquarters four companies of
paramilitary forces and also 100 police
Delhi police have been deployed and if I
could show you the route leading up to
uh the Enforcement directorate's office
uh Delhi police uh you know convoys have
been rallying up and down this road to
uh to detect any sort of untoward
incident and it is also expected that a
large number of Am admi Party leaders
will also arrive at the enforcement
directorates headquarters right here and
in of uh thank you thank you deep thank
you thank you deep Deepak the the there
is a there is another question here
now pratus the am admi party says arind
krial will be chief minister from thar
jail or from custody is this tenable is
this possible can you have the chief
minister of Delhi run his office from
jail I mean there has to be some
reasonableness to suggestions now pratus
what's your take on
that well whatever krial does doesn't
shock me his thought process AR I really
watched this man's career very closely
and I'm so surprised that today when
he's going to jail I was just
remembering that his whole politics is
based on lies sitting in Delhi he's
trying to run Punjab basically he was a
Kingpin to corruption everywhere either
you look at Water
B infrastructure projects there was not
a single place where he and his people
didn't want to make money including the
Shish Mel which he made where he lives
even there the
contractors given money I mean the a
whole Saga of scams which this man was
heading all through and today when he
goes to jail and I was listening to the
op uh spokesperson and I realized that
he missed a
point the arm admy party went to the
lower court where they saw the paper
they didn't listen to him they went to
high court they went to double bench
they went to the epex court the single
judge said they a clear trail of 300
please don't disturb my time go to the
lower court and come to us again even
tomorrow he'll get arrested he'll go to
Supreme Court Supreme Court will never
listen to them they will say please
follow the due procedure which is laid
down in this country that you go to the
right appropriate bench and then you
come to us krial was trying to ask the
Ed you send me the questionnaire do it
on video chat tomorrow you'll ask the
judges your lordship you please give
judgment and tell me why you have given
this judgment do we have this in our
constitution is this man above
Constitution he was trying to run away
from all these summons because he knew
that all the roads were leading to his
house and eventually finally today the
people of Delhi will be relieved that
this corrupt is going to jail and it was
high time he had to be fixed because Del
has really 10
years we have a developing story we have
a developing story uh awara wants to
come on it the Delhi LG is to sub report
submit a report to the m absolutely
there is a huge issue about whether you
can be chief minister uh from prison no
the law what's the latest on that
absolutely at this point of time keeping
in mind that there is a special status
of Delhi keeping in mind that the law in
place what we are being told by our
sources that a chief minister cannot be
in prison and run the government this
will hamper the process and in that case
technicality there there's a jail manual
a jail manual there is a jail manual or
not happen for the
time what is so the jail manual Clearly
say camera two please yeah thank you
yeah jail manual clearly says that there
is no provision under which a minister
can work from inside the jail a minister
or a chief minister also a minister so
the the jail the jail manual in in case
of thar jail I'm being told is very
clear that is jail specific or all jail
man I'm getting to know
from has already sources are clearly
telling me mha has gotten active mha is
saying either he has to be replaced or
removed so it is up to the am admi party
because right now there is a whole
bravado of the amadm party saying aishi
comes out s badw comes out you'll have
the amadm party spokesperson a also
comes out and say that no he will run
the from no he cannot the law doesn't
allow that and in that case if the arm
admy party sticks to it then either he
has to be suspended a new chief minister
has to be swed in or the process will
follow tomorrow morning because till now
the official as Shan was just saying the
arrest memo is being worked on the
letter is still not out so the LG will
be submitting the report and while you
speaking on on just live movement there
the Ed vehicles have just gone in inside
the vehicles and they will shot there if
I can get the shot there or where the
movement is coming in and I put and I
put that question I'll go back to shaan
shaan can you be there shaan can you
move your camera to where the action is
happening it'll be very useful because I
think you're being too static today why
don't you just move to where the action
is happening we'll follow you tell your
camera person to follow you not put his
camera on a tripod please can we get out
of the tripod shot please can you be on
a handheld and move to where the action
is happening thank you so much can that
also can that instruction also go to the
camera person the video journalist with
Deepak on their frame we would like both
of you to move to where the ction is
because it's not I know we are not going
to get the news in if we have you static
on the frames where you are so shaan can
you start moving in please and while
while you move in and while you
establish your shot and while the
establishing shot for you is where the
action is happening so you don't not
away from the place of action thank you
very much I would like to go right now
to Sadat Sadat if there is a rule here
you can't defy the rule sidat sidat you
cannot defy the rule if the rule says
that if the rule says Sadat can you hear
me if the ru that you cannot be chief
minister from jail you cannot create new
rules for
yourself yeah two things one is that
Delhi will not be Delhi does not get
administered through a diar jail manual
Point number two uh in this same India
the stalwart like atal bihari vajpai had
reminded of a Raj Dharma to Mr Narendra
mod2 but he did he he chose not to
accept it so right now am admy party is
a political party we have W with a
people's mandate we have asked the
people of Delhi that arind krial gets
arrested what should be done 95% of the
people have overwhelmingly said that we
have elected Arin krial to serve us he
can serve us from wherever he wants to
it's as simple as that he
can I need I need Shan to be there you
need to understand Arin krial is not
over and above the law may feel so but
if no minister no arind krial no other
minister irrespective of party amadm
party Congress BJP SP and the man who
comes out to defend you today is none
other but Rahul Gandhi Rahul Rahul
Gandhi is coming out you need to
understand does not all cannot you you
cannot you cannot superimpose theil
manual on the constition of India can
you show me the constitution of India
and say that a chief minister cannot sh
running the chief ministership from X Y
or Z place can you show me the
constitution of India saying so if not
let's understand that the law according
to you is not will not be administered
according
toh will be administered according to
the Constitution of India and if the
constitution of India I can explain sir
under the constitution of India there is
a provision of delegated legislation
once Parliament makes a law and
Ates oh okay fine under the constitution
of India there is a provision of
delegated legislation the Jade Manuel
comes under what is called a delegated
legislation and hand it's integral to
the constitution of India and so the
chief minister if he's inside the jail
has to follow the jail manual my my my
my essential question Here Right Now to
S will be and S I can understand the
emotional tenor of what you're saying
tonight can I have him on the shot and
not be on the eight window Aditi thank
you I am asking I am ask asking
something to sidat Aditi thank you so
much just one minute sidat just chill
okay chill now s listen to me absolutely
it's a is is Manish sodia deputy chief
minister of Delhi today he is in
jail he's in jail for is he a present
deputy chief minister or former deputy
chief
minister well if you go back to the
timeline you will see that Mr Manish
hear in the studio fold back
please yeah uh I think if you go back to
the timeline why was he removed as
deputy chief minister why was he removed
by arind krial as deputy chief minister
after he went to
jail two why was he not you chief
minister not operate as deputy chief
minister from jail asking me to I've
heard your question I'm asking you to
answer my
question yeah but as a defense you have
to give me me time to answer if you go
back to the timeline and see Mr Manish
zodia was neither removed from the
deputy chief ministership immediately
after his arrest after a considerable
period of time being the deputy chief
minister he himself said that he would
have he would resign and that is why
that action was taken please go back to
the timeline and see immediately after
his arrest he was not removed as the
deputy chief minister after a
considerable amount of time period of
time had elapsed Mr Mania himself said
that he would like to resign then that
is why it was accepted it is as simple
as that go back to the timeline and see
now just just just just just just one
point sir uh I would like to remind you
that the Manish sodia was deputy chief
minister of Delhi he was arrested and
the post of deputy chief minister has
been wakened since the first March of
last year however the post of Chief
Minister cannot be kept
vacant it is not vacant as of
today Minister may not have auty chief
minister but has a chief minister it is
simple as that you can't break the rules
for that you can't break the rules for
that simpal provision you
secretar you want the officers you want
the secretar to
operate not there it was not there for
Mr Narendra Modi in 2002 when Mr bihari
vaj reminded him of rajad Dharma so what
does not apply what is good for the
goose is good for the gander how come it
how come you there is some other rule
for BJP and other rule for
Amad was never arrested of Mind Mr
Narendra Modi was never arrested there
is no point
number Mr was never arrested there is no
comparison was not arrested when was Mr
Modi arrested how can you draw a
comparison to that wasn't he asked by
the prime minister of India Mr atel
bihari to follow
Raja was he arrested what was he
arrested isn't it isn't it isn't it
right that Mr nendra Modi was under was
he arrested what is that argument no no
no I mean you have to you have to be
reasonable at some point of time you
can't say anything and get away with it
you can't you can you can read a nursery
line with a lot of force it doesn't make
your point right
was under incar not according emerging
subject of debate can I go back to shaan
please Shan is reporting life shaan
what's happening around you
shaan I go I go straight to shaan I
don't have to go to the 11 window
shaan well in fact this is the last
point from where we can report right now
because the rapid action force has been
deployed here all the barricading has
been done in a short while from now we
exp it from the other just I'll just try
and explain this to you don't from where
we are reporting right now that's the
chief Min this is the chief Minister's
residence which have been as you can see
right now completely locked that's the
last point the enforcement director team
is right inside he will be taken out
from this is the gate right now there
are a number of armadi Party workers who
have all been gathered here and what you
see right now on my right hand side is
the rapid action for that has been
brought in because there is a bit of a
Law and Order situation that developed a
short while back with the roads on the
other side from where I was reporting a
short while back that was completely
blocked that's the reason why there has
been a considerable delay right now in
terms of the arrest formalities that
have been that has already been
completed I'm given to understand in a
short while from now uh the enforcement
director headquarters where the security
has been broughten the arrangements have
already been
done ARR have already done okay shaan I
think we getting a lot of video glitches
on that uh
the op is very very adamant that arind
krial will remain chief minister and
operate as chief minister from thar jail
or wherever he
is right and they they would like to
make a political issue of
it they all been trained by arind krial
never believe a word of what they say
they will say something in the morning
by afternoon they will have a press
conference and totally deny and by night
they will change the whole story there
is no element of truth whatever they say
the rule of the law of the country will
prevail nobody can run this city of
Delhi from
jail this man has to resign this man
will not get bail because the law is so
clear the evidence is there look at all
those excise scam uh offenders they have
been in jail for ages because the proof
is so strong the evidence is so strong
AR
who gave you money and you him into appr
and
he is true isn't it true for the
BJP that
youed talking absolutely nonsense but
still I had the patience to hear so you
please have patience to hear okay just
have patience just have
patience I I never I never interfered in
what you were saying you were talking
absolutely nonsense louder louder
s
money of the crime it is Absolut I was
trying to make a point here which this
man is try to disturb me because he has
no other story to tell here the question
is the evidence is so strong against him
so
strong it took time it took time for him
to get arrested
because man who was noing audio
[Music]
governance deficit it is as simple as
that there is absolutely Noy of money
here
neither neither 100 there is not a
single recovery still you are arresting
people you arresting constitutional
authorities how come that's on the basis
of a person becoming an approver and
that approval
during the
not and this is this is only one case
the innumerable scams where
investigations are going on eventually
all of them are going to mature and this
man for all the corruption he has done
own
likei lrish were arrested they were put
behind bars they were under the
maintenance of internal Security Act for
nearly 17 months in jail they did that
stop it is BJP saying that mrhar
and
Mr National threat no they were national
heroes we are also saying national
heroes so what you do with there is a
weapon how do you use that weapon you
have a nice I think now it is a
polarized fight between
ideology ideology can I get the guest in
the screen on the
right
people that is I am not hearing either
in the stud vote now whether they
want want
to S calm down s calm down s sidat calm
down s listen to me I'm finished today
you are fully aware that the case is
turning and Sanjay Singh has been sanj
Singh is not running the government in
Delhi nikel I cannot hear you in the
studio at all I don't know what you're
saying because I can't hear
you calm
down uh today s is not running the
government in Delhi Manish sodia is not
running the government in Delhi satendra
Jen is not running the government in
Delhi if these three individuals are not
running the government in Delhi because
they are from jail sadhar then how can
arind krial run as chief minister from
jail arind krial has denied any of these
individuals so that he arind krial has
said that once you go to jail you cannot
be in the cabinet then how does that
same rule not apply to him this is a
rule that he brought in he quickly
removed his existing ministers and
brought in atishi why can't atii be
chief minister of
Delhi I while he's in jail when he comes
out if he's cleared that he can take
over
again what I answered earlier to your
question about the timeline of
manister I will not go into repeating
repeating it again suffice to say that
Delhi has a governance model arind krial
as of now is the chief minister of Delhi
where does the Constitution stop ask Mr
krial to run Delhi from X Y or Zed Place
anybody in the BJP can show it BJP
cannot show it so let us agree let us
stop it at that now as far as Public
Image is concerned as far as politics is
concerned am admy party and the people
of Delhi have overwhelmingly said that
they have voted for arind krial to serve
serve them and they don't really care
from where he serves as long as he
serves them and that is what AM admy
party is doing and that is what has
spooked BJP to this extent today that
with today itself I at the cost of
repetition I'll say Arab today itself in
the court the the Ed said that arind
krial is neither an accused as a person
nor does it have any nor nor is it
asking AR who has said all
this
accus leader even Chang within 2 hours
was the only thing that changed is he
has you you are not arrested you don't
get what are you saying lawyering to the
today
pleasure that he's not arrested why
the because the evidences were so clear
about
him you are saying something which makes
no sense is say something which is
sensible that this debate taking further
you are you are trying to create stories
which is not true at all you cannot
challenge the Democracy like
this your lawyers today begging that
please what did the lordship
say the story you want the people of
India today in the next two
months nobody nobody
Congress is join the protest on
ground part you sing now now my question
to nikil and nikil and subra is n nikil
nikil and subra on the screen please and
can I have the audio in the studio nikil
the congress party had said that arind
krial should be arrested because he's
The Mastermind of corruption in the
liquor gate
scam to today the government has done
what the Congress
wanted this was the very statement of
the Congress that the Amad admi part is
at the center of liquor gate and arind
krial is The
Mastermind and arind krial should
therefore be
arrested of the audio is not clear I
can't hear
you Arab may I may I just been informed
that the Congress that the congress
party is joining the protest so I'm
reminding everyone yes subra coming to
you I'm reminding everyone that it is
the congress party which had said that
arind krial should be arrested because
of liquor gate so please keep that in
mind when the congress party joins the
protest along with the am admi party
tonight yes
subra uh Arab there are two three things
which are very clear Point number one
today arind krial has lost
any kind of moral High Ground that he
was in he should take moral
responsibility and he should resign I
think I don't want to get into
legalities right now but this is what he
should do Point number two this country
has had a you know that there have been
precedence in the past we have seen yua
G um bharati G Lalu yadav g j Lita G all
resign they never said I I didn't hear
this Narrative of there is emergency in
the country that there is politics
happening all around people when they
were accused when lot of evidences came
to the
Forefront they fought the entire case
they did continue in politics nobody's
asking Arin krial to resign from
politics but the Constitutional post
that he has there is a sanctity attached
to the post and for the different kind
of politics that he was trying to
endorse I think he should just take
moral responsibility and
resign also you know uh there are lot of
these big talks being made by amadm
Party leaders let us
understand arind krial I'm talking
especially to about the India Alliance
leaders if these guys are fighting for
the Constitution and fighting for the
rule of law and fighting for different
the sanctity of different
institutions
I don't understand this what are you
talking about thatal leaders in a
country have to bow down
before ofct prime minister what are you
talking about I'm talking about the fact
that when you are
given look at the principal opposition
part of the country congress party all
its bank accounts have been frozen J
chief minister has been put behind bars
deputy chief minister of Delhi has been
behind bars now the chief minister of
Delhi is behind bars none of these
people have been convicted you're
talking about L Prasad L Prasad resigned
from the post when he
was speak over me not yet done what you
doing right now is putting the entire
opposition of the country behind bars on
up charges without any
democracy the country world is looking
us and you made this country into a
mockery for the 74 years India has been
a Democratic Republic despite