[Music]
UC San Diego I'm so glad I chose this
place
I found the perfect environment to learn
grow and thrive
and it's not just the weather
it's the smart welcoming and
collaborative people that make every day
an experience
it's the classes no matter the subject
be it art Humanities or social science
it's how each Professor thoughtfully
explains information Discovery
application and you find yourself
shaking your head in amazement thinking
wow I never thought of things that way
before
while there are many things that make
you see San Diego an exceptional and
top-ranked Public University
one reason I chose this place was
because of the support from our
outstanding leadership
but don't take my word for it let's hear
from them
hello and congratulations on your
admission to UC San Diego and Welcome to
our University in fact your University
one of the top public universities in
the country
at UC San Diego you will be exposed to
great thinking new methodologies and
pioneering ideas
we are proud of all of our programs that
rank amongst the best in the country we
are also proud of our award-winning
faculty who are leaders in their areas
of teaching and research for example
most of our programs are ranked in the
top 20 in the country and many are
ranked in the top 10.
UC San Diego is also ranked sixth
nationally in research spending
this helps us offer many research
opportunities to our curious and
talented undergraduate students and that
is you
alongside the Sciences UC San Diego also
posts top ranked programs in the Fine
Arts our vision is to make UC San Diego
a preferred destination for art and
culture in addition to education and
health care for our community we are
home to the steward collection one of
the world's most revered public art
collections
shows and performances for example
through ART power provide ample
opportunities to experience art and
culture across our campus
our new Epstein family Amphitheater is
open for theater and dance performances
there's much to experience at UC San
Diego both inside and outside the
classroom and now here are some of my
colleagues to tell you more about what
an exciting place this is
UC San Diego links classroom instruction
with relevant Real World experience
at UC San Diego you will have classes
with faculty who are featured in news
stories for life-changing discoveries or
prize-winning performances and academics
who serve as advisors to the top levels
of government art studios Laboratories
seminar rooms and performance spaces
fill our campus with opportunities to
interact with instructors fellow
classmates and Industry leaders imagine
learning about music composition from a
Tony Award winner or conducting lab
research alongside faculty who have made
revolutionary findings
our campus is filled with opportunities
to make change and be the change in our
world
here students are the heart of the
campus they are a unique blend of
scholar and citizen engaged in public
service research and innovation
Student Success is our greatest priority
and the colleges are the foundation of
the student experience at UC San Diego
they provide a unique and Powerful
support system for our students our
students also enjoy campus connection to
projects and internships With Private
Industry like Qualcomm and Illumina
non-profit organizations and government
agencies like the National Science
Foundation moreover our move to division
one Athletics has sparked a new era of
school spirit now is an exciting time to
be a Triton
UC San Diego is committed to equity
diversity and inclusion we value every
member of our community and we actively
cultivate a diverse and inclusive campus
we encourage respectful and open
dialogue in keeping with our
long-standing principles of community
and our campus community centers and
programs provide leadership development
faculty seminars internship
opportunities and cultural events to
ensure that our students faculty and
staff feel a sense of belonging in our
Triton Community
what more can we say we want you here at
UC San Diego
you were selected from an enormous pool
of accomplished applicants and that
alone is an extraordinary achievement
you represent the very best in
California the nation and the world
we want to see you realize your dreams
and To Boldly Make Your Mark let us help
you continue your journey as a change
maker welcome to the Triton family you
should all be very proud of your
accomplishments some of you started your
own small businesses championed human
rights causes and some created beautiful
works of art each of you has
demonstrated great intellectual capacity
a determination to work hard and a
dedication to serve and improve our
communities college is a family decision
so I want to congratulate your family
members and all the individuals who have
encouraged and supported you along the
way
[Music]
want you to know we believe in you and
we know you will use this time to
discover what makes UC San Diego an
exceptional unique and a prestigious
Public University so welcome again to
the Triton Community and congratulations
on your admissions on behalf of all of
us here at UC San Diego we hope to see
you this fall