he broken this his fire he killed our
people and he didn't exchange prisoners
we signed the exchange of prisoners but
he didn't do it what kind of diplomacy
JD you are speaking about what what you
what you what do you mean I'm talking
about the kind of diplomacy that's going
to end the destruction of your country
but Mr President Mr President with
respect I think it's disrespectful for
you to come into the Oval Office and try
to litigate this in front of the
American Media right now you guys are
going around and forcing conscripts to
the front lines because you have
Manpower problems you should be thanking
the president for trying to bring an end
to this conflict you ever been to
Ukraine that you say what problems we
have I have been to come I've actually
I've actually watched and seen the
stories and I know what happens is you
bring people you bring them on a
propaganda tour Mr President are do you
disagree that you've had problems what
bringing people into your military and
do you think that it's respectful to
come to the Oval Office of the United
States of America and attack the
administration that is trying to trying
to prevent the destruction of your
country a lot of a lot of questions
let's start from the beginning first of
all during the war everybody has
problems even you but you have nice
ocean and don't feel now but you will
feel it in the fusion God bless you
don't know that God bless God bless you
not have don't tell us what we're going
to feel we're trying to solve a problem
don't tell us what we're going to feel
I'm not telling you because you're in no
position to dictate that remember this
you're in no position to dictate what
we're going to feel we're going to feel
very good feel influ we're going to feel
very good and very strong will feel
influence you're right now not in a very
good position you've allowed yourself to
be in a very bad position and he happens
to be right about from the very
beginning of the war you're not in a
good position you don't have the cards
right now with us you start having cards
CS right now you don't you're playing
carding you're gambling with the lives
of Millions people you're gambling with
World War I you're gambling with World
War II and what you're doing is very dis
disrespectful to the country this
country that's back to you far more than
a lot of people said they should have
have you said thank you once this entire
meeting no in this entire meeting have
you said thank you you went to
Pennsylvania and campaigned for the
opposition in October offer some words
of appreciation for the United States of
America and the president who trying to
save your
country please you think that if you
will speak very loudly about the war you
he's not speaking loudly he's not
speaking loudly your country is in big
trouble wait a minut no no you've done a
lot of talking your country is in big
trouble I know you're not winning you're
not winning this you have a damn good
chance of coming out okay because of us
Mr President we are staying in our
country staying strong from the very
beginning of the war we've been alone
and we are thankful I said thanks youen
cabinet we gave you through this stupid
president $350 billion we gave you
military equipment and your men are
brave but they had to use our
military if you didn't have our military
equipment you invited me if you didn't
have our military equipment this war
would have been over in two weeks in
three days I heard it from Putin in
three days this is something in two
weeks of course yes it's going to be a
very hard thing to do business like
just say thank
you except that except except that there
are disagreements and let's go litigate
those disagreements rather than trying
to fight it out in the American Media
when you're wrong we know that you're
wrong but you see I think it's good for
the American people to see what's going
on I think it's very important that's
why I kept this going so
long you have to be thankful you don't
have the cards you're buried there
you're people are dying you're running
low solders listen you're running low on
soldiers it would be a damn good thing
and then you then you tell us I don't
want to cease fire I don't want a
ceasefire I want to go and I wanted this
I look if you can get a ceasefire right
now I tell you you take it so the
bullets stop Flying and you meant stop
getting killed course of course we want
to stop the war but saying you don't
want to see said to you I want to see
guar because you'll get a ceasefire
faster than I great ask how people about
ceas fire what they think that wasn't
matter for you that wasn't with me that
was with a guy named Biden who was not a
smart person that was that was with
Obama it was your president excuse me
that was with Obama who gave you sheets
and I gave you javelins yes I gave you
the javelins to take out all those tanks
Obama gave you sheets in fact the
statement is Obama gave sheets and Trump
gave
javelins you got to be more thankful
because let me tell you you don't have
the cards with us you have the cards
cards but without us you don't have any
cards one more question to Mr Vice
President I'm sorry here be a tough deal
to make um because the attitudes have to
change what if Russia breaks this fire
what if Russia breaks this talks what do
you do then understand that it's a
conversation right what are you saying
she's asking what if Russia breaks the
ceasefire what if they what if anything
what if a bomb drops on your head right
now they okay what have they broke it I
don't know they broke it with Biden
because Biden they didn't respect him
they didn't respect Obama they respect
me let me tell you Putin went through a
hell of a lot with me he went through a
phony Witch Hunt where they used him and
Russia Russia Russia Russia you ever
hear of that deal that was a phony that
was a phony Hunter Biden Joe Biden scam
Hillary Clinton Shifty Adam Schiff it
was a Democrat scam and he had to go
through that and he did go through it we
didn't end up in a war and he went
through it he was accused of all that
stuff he had nothing to do with it it
came out of Hunter Biden's bathroom it
came out of Hunter Biden's bedroom it
was disgusting and then they said oh oh
the laptop from hell was made by Russia
the 51 agents the whole thing was a scam
and he had to put up with that he was
being accused of all that stuff all I
can say is this he might have broken
deals with Obama and Bush and he might
have broken them with Biden he did maybe
maybe he didn't I don't know what
happened but he didn't break him with me
he wants to make a deal I don't know if
you can make a deal the problem is I've
empowered you to be a tough guy and I
don't think you'd be a tough guy without
the United States and your people are
very brave but you're either going to
make a deal or we're out and if we're
out you'll fight it out I don't think
it's going to be pretty but you'll fight
it out but you don't have the cards but
once we sign that deal you're in a much
better position but you're not acting at
all thankful and that's not a nice thing
I'll be honest that's not a nice thing
all right uh I think we've seen enough
what do you think huh this is this is
going to be great television I will say
that all right we'll see what we can do
about putting it
guys come
on we'll see I don't know all right come
[Music]