final question do software engineers
make money it can go anywhere between
300 to 500k 300 to
500 yes yeah but if you're looking for
starting positions which is your new
grad positions which happens with the
University team in that case you should
start applying as soon as possible which
is like July end or August 1 week but
now everyone is applying with a referral
and it's really important to do
something which everyone else is not
doing okay so you came and you applied
and you got it yeah nine out of 10 time
people respond to your cold email I'm
curious what exactly do you send them
also like how do you find those people
thank you akriti for doing this really
means a lot first of all thank you for
being kind and sharing the good news
with me that you got the job in Google
which is awesome I am excited for you
hopefully you will be soon in sunal so I
can come and meet you in person of
course and and I know we're going to do
a separate video on the UC San dieago
which is also going to be exciting let's
do a quick intro like where are you from
where are you right now what do you do
and like what have you been doing and I
completed my bachelor's from bit mesra a
college in chhand in India and currently
I'm pursuing my masters in computer
science at the University of California
San Diego uh with a specialization in
systems it's a very generic computer
science degree but we get to choose a
depth area so my depth area is systems
and I'm headed towards a job at Google
in the Bay Area and it's a software
engineer 3 position so yeah that's
mostly it that is awesome so software I
mean I think people might not know what
software engineer 3 is like a senior
software engineer and not the uh the one
which people typically get is software
engineer one or two uh so so that is
awesome I'm I'm so excited did you have
any like work experience two years of
work experience at Walmart in India and
I was working as a backend software
engineer so uh here the criteria is you
should be two years or more so for me it
was just two years and one month so that
is why I was eligible for software
engineer 3 is it harder interview
process for software engineer 3 versus
software you you I don't know if you
know that yeah I mean uh they Grill you
more because they try to see how clear
your Basics are in some some companies
they ask you for system design but
Google does not ask you software uh
system design for L4 position which is
the software engineer three position
okay now you are doing you did your
Masters in use computer science but then
you chose a specialization again I know
we're going to cover this in a separate
video uh and you were doing your Masters
at some point you're like all right I
need to have an internship I need to
have a full-time job When what when did
you start start looking for full-time
job and then what was your the first
step like okay this is when I'm going to
like this is what the first thing I'm
going to do okay so this actually varies
like for example if I am I had two years
of experience and I was targeting the
higher positions like not the entry
level but one level higher so for that
you can you should ideally start 2 to 3
months before your graduation date so
like I am graduating in December 2023 so
I started looking September because
before that they won't consider you so
uh companies think of it this way like
even if you're are hiring an industry
professional they'll give a notice
period which will be like 30 days or 60
days and then the interview process can
take about 2 weeks to four weeks so that
way two months to two and a half months
is an ideal period for them to hire you
if you're graduating within that
interval but if you're looking for
starting positions which is your new
grad positions which happens with the
University team in that case you should
start applying as soon as possible which
is like July end or August first week
maximum yes yeah 100% yeah I agree uh
because I think Google Facebook all
these big companies they hired like
August September is like their peak time
uh and even like if they are hiring for
summer internship that is also again the
same window like August to November for
the next year's summer internship did
you have any internship yeah I interned
at Salesforce as a software engineering
intern now I'm intrigued by Salesforce
because I didn't know that that you had
that so let's talk through how did you
get the internship first and then we'll
talk about like full-time okay um when
did you start for internship because I
know Salesforce also does the same
hiring cycle which is August to November
but when when did you apply and when did
you get the interview call so August end
or September 1 week I was actively
looking and that is when I actually
applied and I applied with a referal and
I would like to say this that when I was
applying which was in
2021 or 2022 because I was 2022 intake
so that time it was different because
that time not a lot of people were
applying with referrals so basically
whoever was applying with a referal was
at a higher position but now everyone is
applying with a referal and it's really
important to do something which everyone
else is not doing so that your resume
stands out or people actually notice you
so um I applied with the referral and
then I cleared the interviews and then I
got in but for someone who is applying
now I would recommend cold emailing and
making somehow your profile visible to
the recruiter because even if you apply
with referrals there are thousands of
more candidates who may even be more
qualified than you if you're a fresher
and in that case your profile does not
stand out and it's very difficult so uh
either try out um different websites
like Venture Loop agent is one which
really helped me because many of their
postings are not available on LinkedIn
where everyone applies through to the
common jobs on LinkedIn so if the number
of applicants are less than the chances
increased basically so trying to mail
startups or basically applying in places
where not a lot of people would be
applying would increase your chances you
can yourself be strategic because today
applying there might help but somehow
other people might also get to know that
oh this is the website where I can apply
to Unique jobs and they might also start
applying so you need to keep thinking
that how can you increase your chances
by applying in places where not a lot of
competition is there because even if you
have a very great profile with such huge
number of applicants and so many
experienced people applying for the same
role as you it's really difficult to get
your profile visible um for especially
for people who are coming in fall uh so
let's say they come in August and they
are like okay I have plenty of time they
don't really have a plenty of time
because if they want summer internship
they need to apply like in August or
September because that's when the
opening happens obviously you can't look
sounds like you you are a spring student
no no no I was a fall student I came in
September so UCSD the fall quarter
starts in September okay so you came and
you applied and you got it
yeah that's awesome yeah that is so cool
so obviously you had your resume and
profile kind of worked on before coming
to United States is that correct yeah
yeah okay nice okay um you said like you
one you said you used referal for
Salesforce and Salesforce it was It
software engineer role as well
yeah got it so how did you w get the
referral like did you know someone or
did you find someone and then got the
referral like was it cold cold or was it
lukewarm it was cold cold but then again
companies have this two kind of referals
that one is an active referral where if
the person knows you personally they can
write a personalized paragraph about you
which is more valuable and second is a
passive referal where they just put in
your resume and then no one really
bothers much but but I would recommend
like this person from whom I took a
referral she did not know me and then
she was willing to write that
personalized paragraph which I sent to
her itself like most of the people do
that and because it's a tough market and
everyone kind of knows how important it
is I've seen people more willing to
help Okay so let's I mean I know we're
going to probably all over the place now
so how did you find this person and then
uh like how did you what was your
because it sounds like you were telling
me this off camera that um you nine out
of 10 time people respond to your Cil
I'm curious what exactly do you send
them and uh also like H how do you find
those people okay so like when I was
applying for internships I had one thing
in mind that that person should have
done a master's from a US University and
should be a one year or two years back
pass out because they will understand
your situation better and so they know
what the importance of a referral is and
what the importance of getting an
internship program internship in a one
year to twoyear program is it's really
important so they generally respond back
and maybe I get lucky when I get those
responses but if you personalize your
content to even if you're writing to the
recruiter or if you're asking for a
referral if you personalize your content
saying that this is what we have in
common or saying that I am really these
are my top skill sets and I feel I'm a
great match for this position and I
really need a referral or something like
that then the chances of getting a
response is higher compared to oh I
interested in this company can you give
me a referral got it so personalizing
customizing it and you doing the work
versus making the referal person do the
work for you sounds like so again break
this down in simple terms you you I'm
assuming you found the person on
LinkedIn yes you go on LinkedIn you hit
search uh you filter it on people like
okay I want to see Salesforce people so
did you like filter it on Salesforce
necessarily yes okay so that sounds like
you had a list of Target companies and
then you started like find the people
from that Target companies then you're
like okay this person looks like she has
2 three years of experience you'll
understand my situation now I'm going to
reach out to that but it wasn't like hey
is there anything available in your
company I'm I would be great for you
also did the research of like here's the
position here's why I'm good fit for it
and would you be able to connect with me
and then you I think that's kind of the
path you took and that got you the most
result yeah correct and like yeah I
would also recommend that when you get
some updates right like suppose you get
an interview call back then keep
updating the person because it really
feels good and then seeing you succeed
they feel happy and then they are
willing to help you more yeah you came
to United States you started applying
you reached out to someone at Salesforce
um you know they referred you and then
you got the internship great I'm
assuming it was a great experience I was
in Salesforce office recently so I I did
the whole tour of were you in the San
Francisco office yes nice uh it's it's
super cool did you like it yeah I loved
it the view from the top floor is like
just the best things um so you enjoyed
the uh software engineering internship
you came back now you started applying
for uh Google I mean you applied for
full-time positions and then you were
looking for senior positions because
you're like you know I'm I'm eligible so
I want to break this apart even and two
things like I know we talked heavily on
first part like job search but can we
talk about like for your clouds and
system like what I feel like you have
this mindset confidence built in you at
least that's what I see like you because
not many people would apply to senior
position uh even right now if I were to
go and apply for like senior product
manager I'm like going to look at the
description and I'll be scared like oh I
don't think I know this positions did
you
when you were reading the description
did you feel those thing or you like oh
I I know these things if there were
seven eight requirements so first of all
every big tech company they'll have
generic set of requirements so only when
you actually enter the team matching
phase then you know what specific that
team does and what their requirements
are so that way when I read the job
description it was very generic and they
required some goang experience some
kubernetes experience that's it but when
I actually entered the team team
matching phase they told me that we
require crd experience and controllers
development experience and all that
stuff so when you read the job
description even if you have three out
of five matching stuff and you so
basically the number of years matters
like for example in companies like
Amazon and even meta I guess they ask
you to check box or to take the check
box and if you don't have that they aut
to reject you so uh applying there will
not help you but actually Ling in
companies which don't have those check
boxes then you can give it a shot
because like 2 years or one year and 10
months should be okay I mean should be
manageable as long as you can crack the
interviews and you can convince the
hiring manager that you are a good F
cool so it's so interesting because I
would think most people are more
interested in software engineering route
because it's more safe and convenient
than the clouds and system so that is
interesting that you you explored and
then you liked it and you kept going
because you were like okay this is this
is fun this is I wouldn't choose
controllers because it's like so scary
and so it's like so much so much to
remember but uh that's that's awesome
what what are some of the roles you
think if people were to choose computer
science and they were to go to network
and Cloud uh one do you agree with me
that there are lot there are a lot of
jobs and demand going to be in the
future uh yes I would say but I would
still recommend like for example for me
it's a software engineer role uh my job
like what I do will be more on the cloud
side and writing controller side and if
I want to actually go in a more Niche
like only controllers kind of job then
that'll help me but because I'll be
writing apis also which more or less
every de software engineer would do so
if I want to transition to a software
engineer role that will also help me so
why I'm saying this is if you can
actually when you are applying for a
full-time job if you can actually use a
niche area like either security or
networking and get a generic title like
a software engineer title then it'll
really help you and even like just to
talk in layman terms right the demand
for Java is a lot so if you have two
years of java experience use that
instead of just applying for jobs where
they say programming experience required
or preferred programming languages Java
Wang C++ Etc so if you have a niche area
getting a call back for that Niche area
is higher compared to applying to
generate positions so that was exactly
what I also did so although I'll be
working very heavily on the systems side
the job search strategy was to get a
software engineer role so the demand is
there and then the followup was going to
be like what are some of the skills
required for what you are doing so my
skill set is um kubernetes goang uh crds
which are your customer resource
definition and Cloud Technologies and
yeah mostly that's it and all what what
is cloud Technologies uh is it like
Azure AWS Google Cloud yeah Google Cloud
because Google uses their own internal
cloud of course why would they use
Amazon but uh yeah yeah we yeah we use
gcp as well so we are your
customers but um I believe there are
three main things which are like in a
way required for to get a job one is
your resume one is your LinkedIn or like
your profile and the portfolio and there
are two main ways to get it one is
online app like application and then
referrals so I know you went heavy on
referral side now talking about job
search I feel like there are two main
ways and there are probably only two
ways one is just purely cold
applications or online applications and
and then second one is the referral like
someone helps you get into the company I
heavily rely on referals and I know you
have also used that path but before we
get to that path let's talk about the
online application for online
application I feel like there's three
main things needed one is resume
LinkedIn and your profile or your
portfolio so let's start with your
resume yeah sure so um so like there is
there are some applicant tracking
systems which give use some scores like
for example resume worded so just try to
make sure that your score is above 90 or
95 but I think going above 95 is very
difficult and their recommendations are
not that great because they ask you to
have a number in almost every line of
your resume which is fine because most
companies are using the ATS today to
actually filter out your resume but um
yeah I mean if you think logically that
adding a number in this line is not
possible then it's okay I mean getting a
a score of 19 92 should be fine and you
can expect to get filtered out but again
then getting even after you filter out
the ATS getting a call back is very
difficult because like almost thousands
of candidates are using the same ATS
systems and they also have a very high
score so um yeah so for online tracking
system U that score helps it sounds like
you look at the job description one like
get a generic score uh get your resume
together format it and all of that so
first step is there second step is now
that you have resume in some some good
spot now when you're applying look at
the job description would you I would
recommend but I'm want to see would you
recommend people to Custom Tailor it to
the job they're applying or they should
they just use generic one I mean if it's
a dream company you should but if we see
practically like every person applies to
500 600 applications and you do not have
so much of time to personalize it to
every single job that you're are
applying to so I had one basic template
which had the actual so basically the
jobs which you would be applying to you
would be looking for similar things so
those keywords should be present in one
template of yours and then if it's a
dream company and then they ask you two
three things extra in the job
description then you can customize it
according to them and then send that
resume but I did not put in so much of
effort because um like internship time I
was even in inter sh I was not writing a
personalized tailored resume for every
single company but um like when you do
full-time like when I was doing
full-time I had subsidized a very small
set of companies and so for them I did
these things two or three times and um
how many companies did you apply 500
during internships yes I would say but
for full time I kind of knew very early
on in September that I would get a
return offer from Salesforce and I was
but I did not have the letter in hand so
I was applying to some companies
randomly without referals which were
small companies and I did not bother
much about them but for big companies I
was putting in the effort and I would
say I would have applied to like 15 big
companies because I was sure just 15
yeah because because I was sure that I
would get a return off and like 30 35
small companies but uh if you do not
have anything in hand then you should
just go crazy and applied to every
single thing which you
see right right okay cool can we can we
see your resume and see like how you
structured it yes of course so um yeah
so this is the doc version of my resume
because I was a University graduate so
like I am still in University so I had
my uh education section first and then I
had these technical skills now again I
was looking specifically for Goan uh
programming language
so I had goang first but in some
companies which they required C++ as the
basic language I had C++ first and then
tools press apis is a keyword which
you'll find in every single job
description for a software engineer if
it's a backend role so you need to have
that then AWS git all these are very
common actual Words which I pulled out
from job description across companies
and all of that is present in here this
kind of helps my resume short list from
the ATS stage and then because I was
looking for cloud roles so I had cloud
computing here and yeah these were
things which I was tting so someone for
example if they are a backend software
engineer then they can put backend
software engineering here if that
helps yeah and then coming on to
professional experience initially I had
a lot of stuff here like bracket some
technologies and stuff but um eventually
it became too congested and I feel
people would not have wanted to look at
it so I kind of removed everything and
tried to make it clean so that if a
person is just looking at it they're
able to pick up keywords like for
example network security is something I
am interested in so I just have that
here although putting a team so this is
the name of my team although generally
most people don't put it but because
this is the only thing that I'm putting
in bold so I had the name of the team
because it has the keywords which I
want and so yeah sure yeah and I I like
that um you even in your Salesforce uh
experience it doesn't have like a lot of
um quantifiable like you know helped
with revenue or cost or something like
that it purely is very technical like
engineered of production ready
microservices so that you could do this
um conducted experiment with you know I
think again you're using the keywords
even in your bullet points which are
there in the job description so it's not
just that putting it in the skill
section but how did you use your skills
in the bullet points is very important
correct right because if you just put in
some content here which does not really
add any value then it consumes a lot of
space on your
resume yeah yeah and then again
obviously in Walmart you actually have
more quantifiable like numbers what
basically yeah yeah
so nice okay so then work experience and
then you went to projects okay gotta
then awards and achievements yeah and I
would definitely recommend this that if
you have some awards and achievements
definitely put it as a separate section
because most people don't have this
because they do not have such uh
achievements which they can put in a
separate this uh separate section but if
you have this your resume stands
out yeah and another thing I noticed is
the GitHub link for each of your project
which means you have hosted the code uh
so that people can see like it's not
just like you know words I can actually
go and see the code correct yeah and
another thing is like if you can like I
did not have space so if someone has
your paper resum they cannot really
click on this so if you can somehow put
in some meaningful name so that if they
can just type that in if they do not
have your on online version of the
resume cool okay so you did um so for
online obviously it's the resume and
then LinkedIn again we can people can go
to LinkedIn and scan our as our LinkedIn
profile um and then comes the total
portfolio which in your case portfolio
is the GitHub profile lead code if you
have one those would be I would consider
as a portfolio for product managers it
could be different things um anything
would you think of like for online
application is it just purely numbers
game job description I would say add as
much details as you can add like for
example when you say portfolio I was
considering it to be a website like I
have my own website which I have hosted
on GitHub and I really feel that even if
you have a very simple plain basic
website but have it because if you
notice in most of the applications they
have a specific field where they ask you
for your website URL initially I did not
have it but then I attended multiple
counseling this U multiple places where
the actual recruiters come and they give
you suggestions and tips so they have
recommended it thousands of times that
you should have a website URL because
it's easier for the recruiter to glance
and it's also easier and it kind of
tells them that you are an enthusiastic
person and it's a simple web development
project they can just see like there are
multiple ways of Hosting you can just
use a notion page and host it but still
having that shows them that you have
something with some experience with web
development so obviously have that and
another thing is um have your LinkedIn
profile up to date always because when I
was applying I saw multiple times that
the recruiters used to come to my
profile and see so as much content you
can fit in your LinkedIn it's the best
and if you can actually be active like
keep posting of what you achieve now
let's talk about referral side which is
where your strong suit is uh I'm
assuming most of your interview you got
was through referral yes and I would
also say career fails help a lot because
again as I said in the beginning that
you need to reduce your competition
space so if if if you're uh going to a
career fair then it's obvious that they
are coming specific to your University
and they have a they have the head count
like for example 20 students from UCSD
we are for sure hiring so even if you're
not that great in if you don't perform
great in the interviews and all that
stuff but they feel they have confidence
in you then you have a chance there
because it's easy to get a call back
here it's obvious that if you perform
well in the career fair or if you talk
well and if they impressed they will
give you a call
back yes and it is such an
underutilized resource on campus Because
PE I think for some reason stigma is and
people have made it a that nothing
happens in career fair no one gets a
call it's and I I've said this many
times that I personally have gotten my
job through career fair and I feel like
people just assume that they're not
there to hire you in this might come as
a surprise these companies who come to
Career Fair they actually have to pay
University to put a table on the career
fair because I was part of the event as
of my on campus job so they have to like
in at least in ours like you know
roughly 500 to, 1500 and even the more
higher they pay they get to choose where
they want to be in the career so again
from think about from company's
perspective they why would they come and
spend money just to like be there like
they are they are there for a specific
reason yes some seniors didn't get it
that doesn't mean you will not get it
you like and I I think what you
mentioned is so important that you are
cutting out so much competition because
now it's only specific to UC San Diego
and no other universities is applying to
that maybe some people might sneak in
but at least it's very specific to your
so out of 100,000 people now there's
only 500 people who are going to that so
you have much better chances or
probability so yeah I I agree and again
prepare for career fair as well don't
just go blindly have the list ready that
these are the companies I'm going to go
to these are the things I'm going to
talk to here's my elevator pitch and
then so on yeah would you agree yes
definitely because like when they come
they either give you a job description
or you can just start with the first two
lines which comes up when you write the
name of the company on Google and see
what you have which can completely align
with that and just try to start a
conversation because when you start a
conversation the recruiter will also say
something and whatever they say just be
smart enough to pick one or two words
which align with your profile from what
they say and show them that dude this is
what you need and here is what I have
which should be a perfect
alignment yes yes did you did you get
any interview calls from career fail yes
I got uh so I got Arista networks with
and it was just B I don't have a very
strong networking background but that
call back was just based on one single
course and whatever I had learned from
that course which actually converted
into a interview okay so now I I know
one of the things you said is C emailing
so there's C messaging uh on LinkedIn
and then there's called emailing yes did
you do both or did you do one or the
other I mean obviously you did the C
messaging on ledin which worked for you
did you also do the cold emailing when I
was trying for full-time jobs I did
because then I knew that I have less
time because I started only in September
and I was graduating in December and
also if you have like I knew I'll get a
return offer from Salesforce so I knew
that if I accept that I cannot even
reneg so I again even had a shorter
timeline so yeah I did cold email can
you explain what is cold emailing uh
like because I know cold messaging is
like you find a person you see the
relevance and then you message them like
how did you find people how did you find
their email what email did you use and
all of that so I would say seniors are
your best bet when it comes to this
because if if you if your seniors have
received received an interview or some
recruiter has contacted them they have
their emails which they might be willing
to share with you because they are your
University seniors and they understand
what you are going through so again
people here are very much willing to
help you just need to know what to ask
how to ask and be able to reciprocate
when someone else needs you that's all
you need and so yeah they will have the
email IDs which will be helpful and if
you if the recruiter is asking you for
anything you can also say that yes this
is my senior and you can give your
senior reference that's absolutely fine
and um then you get the email IDs and
then you message them and then you I
mean email them and when you are
emailing again be very very specific
tell them that this particular job I am
interested in and show that these are
the projects which I have done which
have given me these skills and this
aligns with this particular requirement
of your job description so the more uh
coherent and aligned it is the higher
your chances are wow okay so this is
different than what I was thinking I
wasn't thinking um what you said so what
you're saying is you you look up your
seniors and you're like okay this person
has gotten a job in Google so that means
this person have already talked to
hiring managers and recruiters so you
would reach out to them and ask them
like hey if they're willing to share the
email of the recruiters and hiring
managers yes and if they are then you
Cod email them saying like hey I got
your contact from so and so if you want
to or you're purely C emailing like I
found your email and then you send them
that is an interesting strategy I I I
thought what you were going to say which
is also another strategy which works for
people and people have said that that
has worked for them is that you go you
look up um that okay this is the hiring
manager so you find a software engineer
position and sometimes LinkedIn will say
like okay this is the hiring manager so
then you go to some of the website where
you can find the email address from the
website right so you find the email
address and then you do the cold
emailing which uh again is the same
concept but you're getting the email is
a different way which uh again that that
is an interesting way to like I I never
thought of it but now I was like oh yeah
that is that is smart I just feel like
if people are willing to share like I
don't know if I would be willing to
share recruit so I would have probably
have to ask like hey can I share my
share your email with my friend or I
don't know yeah that is because you have
already entered into industry right like
I am talking about my specific senior
who would have graduated like six months
back and they would have been applying
for interviews and they would like you
got selected and you are in the first
round or something those kind of
conversations happen with the recruiter
email ID right so those email IDs uh I
think people are willing to share those
at least I have seen that yeah right
yeah yeah it just depends on how you
call email the recruiter so that way the
person who sent it uh is not like you
know shown in a bad light like hey you
you that's my personal identity why did
you reveal it kind of thing right so
yeah yep here you go so this is a
message which I had mail in fact a mail
wow okay yeah it is big enough but it
even if you just read the first line you
like understand so basically I I kind of
assume that if I send this big of an
email the recruiter will not read full
of it and might only be interested in
the first lines of it so in the first
line I have the most important content
where I'm saying that I'm currently a
mscs student and in my most recent role
I was a software engineering intern
which means they know that I had an
internship and then I am telling that
what I am interested in and what my what
my attitude is and all that stuff and
then what I am interested uh like which
specific roles I'm targeting that's it
and then if they like the first
sentences they can come and deep dive
into what other things I have or what
specific skill set I have so uh like
when when I was in the team matching
phase I had a very short timeline and
that's why I had a more specific cold
email for managers where I specified all
a lot of technicalities like um I was
looking for performance sensitive and
impactful projects and I'm pursuing uh
Masters in computer science my uh
specialization is this and then all the
big terms like rest apis distributed
systems and going into more depth
because the technical manager or the
hiring manager will understand what the
team Works in actually and what the
specific skill set requirement is like
the recruiter might not understand these
words very well but the technical
manager might be on the lookout for
these so having these on an email to a
manager might again increase your
chances Google has the team matching but
uh I don't I think Amazon might have to
I'm not sure like there are few
companies who do team matching but not
every company has it so but again you
can use the same technique where people
have posted on uh LinkedIn right like
you can go to LinkedIn click on search
and just say or like type hiring
software engineer and then there might
be hiring managers who have posted that
now you can get their email by using the
technique I said um and then then email
them the same thing which again will get
the higher investment in terms of your
time and effort definitely yes call
email is your way to go call messaging
is your way to go you ask them
straightforward you do a lot of the
frontend work and then uh hopefully some
of them will respond I know not everyone
will respond um how what how did you
like motivate keep going motivate
yourself like okay out of 10 people only
in your case nine were responding so you
didn't really need motivation
yeah but what advice would you say for
people who might not be getting
responses I mean I would say that you're
not the only one there are a lot a lot a
lot of people and not just you people
who have been in the industry who got
laid off they are also going through the
same thing where they don't really get
call backs or responses but it's fine
someday you will get the eye of the
recruiter and then things will
completely change so you really need to
keep trying for that one one single
opportunity which you need and yeah you
will be okay just keep going okay so now
uh what is what was the preparation that
you did to do uh what kind of things you
did to prepare for it and then we'll
talk quickly about interview like rounds
and all of that and then we'll go from
there okay what like what how did you
prepare for this because obviously you
targeted like big companies Salesforce
and Google and they have extensive
interview process so how did you prepare
for these so for fulltime um it'll be
more rigorous and it'll primarily be
lead code so lead code prepare a lot
like 500 plus questions is a very normal
thing like I would say almost everyone
does it but don't go by the number go by
the quality of the questions like for
example I would suggest the blind 75 or
the 150 list because that has a very
good quality of questions and it's like
diverse like if you just do like I would
say I did not do anything much except
for the 150 list but I did do did that
list two three times so like if you do
the same question after 3 months you
might not remember exactly what the
concept was but if you keep practicing
your muscle memory gets it hard and then
you know how to apply it very well well
so um I would really recommend that need
code 150 list and it's also great now
because there are videos available so
you don't even need to keep struggling
you can time bound yourself and see the
videos which are really good and
explanatory so that you can learn from
it and like after I started so first I
was doing lead code this need code 150
list and then after I started getting
interview calls so I was filtering by
the company and then trying to do the
most frequent ones like after you filter
by the company also there are different
uh filters then you try to um sort them
by frequency and then do those like 30
questions of each company that'll be
good enough and uh the topics like
graphs and dynamic programming is a must
must must like I was asked dynamic
programming in many interviews I know
it's a very hard topic
people people are really scared about it
but uh like you can do it with practice
nothing is that difficult which cannot
be achieved with practice I would say
try to build your profile and like try
to explore a lot because you ultimately
don't want to be in a place where you
don't like working so try to explore
what is the area you want to work in
live for it work hard work a lot hard to
build a profile so that you can get what
you want and you got to keep hustle keep
hustling love it I I love it yeah and
and it all worth it for you I'm assuming
now now you feel like yes this was this
my hard work of two years coming to in
United States in United States it was
all worth it yes would you agree yes yes
yeah I know the times you would feel
like giving up you would feel like okay
this is nothing is working out like I'm
not good enough there's going to be
self-doubt coming in but you just gotta
keep smiling and you got to keep
hustling like I say so um no that's
awesome I forgot to ask you did did you
um because you were a googly and you
obviously were confident you had
Salesforce in your pocket as well so did
you negotiate your salary I did but my
problem was I had a very small time
window because I had to either accept or
uh reject Salesforce before um like I
got an offer from Google I mean
basically the timeline was closed so I
did not negotiate a lot my recruiter
just asked me what your salary
expectation is and then he was trying
and I quoted very reasonable values
because I had done my market research
like when I say very reasonable it was
not lower but I knew that if I asked for
this they are going to give me at least
consider giving me that because I had
done a lot of research on level start
FYI so um I quoted my values and then
they tried like in one round like my
recruit came back only once but then
because the timeline was very short so
they on their end also they worked a lot
and they tried to match as much as they
could to my expectations and then it was
pretty close and so I was okay with it
so yeah I'm going to recommend everyone
please don't accept what they give you
this is the mistakes i' I've done they
always have a room to increase at least
5,000 10,000 15,000 depending on the
company uh and in ak's case it's
probably 100,000 200,000 so I'm just
kidding but uh but like just don't
except whatever your recruiter is you
always want to have at least you know 20
30,000 more they will it's not that
they're going to say no they're going to
just come back and say like hey we can
only do this much and then you know it's
up to you to accept it or not but don't
accept just as is is is what I was going
to say but yeah this is uh I'm glad you
did negotiate and you're like you know I
I negotiated I didn't have much time so
I did negotiate only 300
500 but uh this is awesome
I'm I'm so glad we did this again thank
you akriti I can't wait to do UC San
Diego experience because I think it's
going to be fun to know that part of
your story and enjoy your India trip and
once you come back we'll film another
one but again thank you so much until
our next one keep smiling keep hustling