one of f1's most popular and longest
serving team bosses Gunter Steiner has
left his role in charge of H it's a
shock move that poses serious questions
about the team's prospects and future
it's almost Unthinkable to imagine H
without Steiner as while the team Bears
the name of its owner Jean H this was
really Steiner F1 in all but name
Steiner was the man who made f1's
strangest team setup possible and became
an unexpected star of the Netflix drive
to survive series we'll get into his
importance a little later in this video
Steiner's depart with former director of
engineering IO kamatsu taking over his
team principal has surprised almost
everybody in F1 but there has been
discontent bubbling away for some time
now and the situation had been coming to
a head behind the scenes now Steiner's
gone and technical director Simone
rester is understood to be out as well
there were frustrations with the way
that H was run from the very top and
that means aonomus team owner Jee H who
was seemly become apathetic towards his
own F1 team and refused to invest in it
Steiner and H disagreed on the team's
potential in its current form with a
limited UK base in Banbury a technical
facility in Marinello where H has a
critical alliance with Ferrari and a
Barely Used but excellent headquarters
in the United States while Steiner felt
has needed steady investment over the
next few years as it had outgrown its
unique multilocation Ferrari dependent
model Gan Hass believes the team has
underachieved and does not need more
resources or improved facilities to
perform better this fundamental Clash
caused obvious tension and ultimately an
irreconcilable difference Jean has wants
someone who will run the team his way
and Steiner is no longer that man even
the official announcement hints at the
extent of the disagreements has stresses
greater efficiency maximizing the team's
potential and his supposed desire to
compete properly in F1 KATU suggests the
existing parts just need to be
restructured and better LED and that the
team in its current form can achieve
better results if that's to be taken at
face value then the implication is
kamatsu told Jean H exactly what he
wanted to hear and that's why he now has
Steiner's job it's highly likely some of
that lobbying took place in the latter
part of 2023 There is almost certainly
some classic F1 politics behind
Steiner's exit but there is also the
thorny question of what jean Hass thinks
his F1 team is what he wants it to exist
for and what that means for it in
reality H has always seemed happy just
to let the team exist without wanting to
invest in it or sell it he doesn't need
the money and doesn't need the team to
be successful to benefit his H
automation brand that it was set up to
promote in the first place in f1's
costat world with a better prize money
spread for the worst performing teams
than before and a bunch of good partners
that ironically Steiner was absolutely
critical to getting on board hass's F1
team doesn't need to achieve much to
tick over and either directly or
indirectly make it worth the owner's
while but that's an underwhelming
existence for a team in an Elite Sports
and if Jee has sincerely believes that
his existing investment isn't being
maximized then he has misjudged the
situation badly H is f1's smallest team
with basic facilities and a convoluted
structure its banry UK base is
underwhelming and there's clearly some
dysfunction to resolve there too badb
based kamatsu as team boss May at least
offer more direct leadership than it had
with Steiner being based in the US and
the 2024 season will be a big test of
his leadership and has his confidence in
the team's
potential without Steiner there would
have been no h F1 team while billionaire
Gan H had the money Steiner was key to
making the project possible H had been
CED by the ill- fated usf1 team that was
due to join the F1 Grid in 2010 that
peaked his interest and along with
Steiner he later started to work on an
F1 team idea however after initial plans
to run Ferrari customer cars were
torpedoed when it became clear the rules
would not allow this it seemed the
project was dead in the water Steiner
knew that building a conventional F1
team from the ground up wasn't viable
but he recognized the listed Parts
regulations meant there was a way to do
it that didn't involve being supplied
whole cars by another team listed parts
were those that teams had to design
themselves in order to qualify as
Constructor in 2016 this was the monoco
survival cell front impact structures
rollover structures Bodywork Wings floor
and diffuser Steiner took the idea of
the technical partnership to extremes
with has taking everything it could from
Ferrari in exchange for serious cash
what's more this meant the team could
use upto-date rather than year old Parts
the agreement also meant it could use
Ferrari's wind tunnel in Marinello
Steiner also formulated the deal with
Italian manufacturer darara not only to
produce the car but also do significant
design work Steiner's unique management
style has made him an unexpected star of
the Netflix drive to survive series and
gives you an idea of his direct and to
the point approach in many ways he was
the ideal character to lead a small team
like this into F1 Steiner then was key
in ensuring the team survived when the
covid-19 pandemic hit in 2020 hass's
interest in the team was waning amid
frustrations about the difficulties in
raising sponsorship and there was every
chance H would be closed down however
Steiner was able to save the team with a
strategy involving extreme cutbacks and
effectively writing off the 2020 and 21
Seasons with minimal development a deal
was done to take on two rookies who
would bring backing Nikita maerin and
Mick schumacker and Jee has signed the
New Concord agreement thanks to the
reduced cost cap and more equitable
distribution of prize money what's more
Steiner's high profile means he was a
valuable asset to the team in terms of
its wider profile and appeal to sponsors
for proof of that take a look at the
cover of the F1 manager 23 game that
features Toto wolf Christian hoer and
Steiner Steiner was Central in making
the team possible getting it on the grid
keeping it there and turning a team that
once could have been closed down into
one potentially worth a billion dollars
or more he is therefore a massive loss
the man replacing Steiner I kamatsu has
been part of H since its Grand Prix
debut in 2016 kamatsu had already spent
a decade in The Paddock by then first
with B Honda then Renault as that turned
into Lotus kamatsu became more visible
as first Vitti Petro's race engineer
then in the same role for Roman Gran
both drivers were Podium finishers with
kamatsu by their side Gran nearly a
grand prix winner kamatsu was eventually
promoted into a more senior role within
endstone before just as it became Reno
effectively following groan to Hass
there he's headed up Trackside
operations and has occasionally made
public facing appearances as the team's
other senior figure at the track now
that he's the senior figure a lot more
of those appearances will be coming up
in
2024 the appointment of kamatsu as team
principle is very much a carryon as
before decision that raises big
questions about a team that appears to
be wasting the massive opportunity
presented to it by f1's growth and
transformed financial model at a time
when it should be pushing on it's lost
its team principal and technical
director it's clear that kamatsu will
focus on the racing side of the
operation with a chief operating officer
set to be appointed to work out of its
UK base focusing on other aspects of the
team it's understood the new coo will
not travel regularly to races this means
that katsu's Focus will be on improving
the way the team extracts the maximum
Potential from what it already has it's
difficult to see him as being across as
everything as Steiner was particularly
when it comes to enticing sponsors the
fact an internal appointment has been
made for its two key leadership
positions with chief designer Andrea do
zordo expected to take over his
technical director doesn't present the
image of a team that's ripe for
expansion and new ideas there's every
chance of an upturn in form given last
year's car was limited by a deadend
aerodynamic direction that didn't yield
performance gains in 2023 the car was
quick enough to qualify in the top 10
but the tire degradation was terrible
meaning points were rare the big
question is what impact kamatsu has in
reshaping the team while there won't be
dramatic changes he will have the
opportunity to do things his way
therefore the effectiveness of his
methods and how the rest of the team
responds to him will have a big impact
on how successful passes this season a
comparison can be made with Andrea
Stella who stepped up from a comparable
role at McLaren to become team principal
last year this means such a move can
work although kamatsu is a very
different character given Steiner had a
big say in how the team worked there is
potential for kamatsu to stamp his own
way of doing things on the team however
katsu's hands may be tied by the
financial limitations when it comes to
wider changes and it's difficult to see
his team going anywhere its Rivals from
2023 William stake and alatar are all
benefiting from heavy investment and new
facilities and H will fall behind in the
long term at a time when F1 is growing
rapidly H risks being left behind as an
eternal tail
Ender the change at the top of H
inevitably raises the question of
whether it could be sold with andreti
formula Racing's entry still in limbo
despite being accepted by the FIA could
it move to buy h on paper it's an
elegant solution for all parties Michael
andreti has said that he's had several
conversations in the past with Jean Hass
about the possibility he told Associated
Press in May 2022 that H wasn't in
interested and that he didn't care if
he's running at the back Jean hass's
position appears to be unchanged but
there is a logic to such a move as he
would rake in a huge sum of money
andreti would get a starting point for
his team and the standoff between the
FIA and F1 over letting in an 11th team
would be resolved but sensible as that
sounds right now this looks unlikely as
andreti has said the team seems to work
for H and it's Machine Tools company so
why would he sell however it can't be
ruled out and there's every chance that
the ruction at H might mean andreti or
F1 itself tries again to make this
happen ultimately it will all come down
to what Gan Hass wants and as Steiner's
shock departure proves that appears to
be carry on as
is