hi everyone welcome to today's video so
first and foremost I hope that you are
making good money in the stock market if
you have been following this channel for
the last two years you guys know that I
started buying quite aggressively when
the market was roughly around 17 17 and
a half
th000 in fact last one year had been
extremely bullish on small mid gaps
they've all given roughly 40% run UPF
that was Phase 1 okay now starts phase
two where I have restarted my buying I
feel that good money is to be made in
the next 6 to 12 months so I'm buying a
lot of things for example today I bought
all this stuff so on this video I'm
going to do two three things number one
I'm going to help you understand why the
markets are likely to give a breakout in
the next 6 to 12 months run up B where
will that runup be and more importantly
what type of lowrisk high risk medium
risk opportunities you can explore
question
HDFC all this that's a lowrisk
opportunity if you want to x 3X your
money then you have to go to another
category of Investments so I'm going to
explain all these different categories
my humble request is very simple that
please watch the macro part of this
video which is part one understand the
logic without understanding the logic if
stock then you will start trembling
right so please do not fall into that
trap if you are from that category
please stop watching my channel go away
so that's point one then watch the
second half of the video where I will
relate this macroeconomics to specific
stock stocks so yes stock specific
discussion so let's begin and just a
very quick
note so that these type of videos reach
out to more people second let me also
tell you one important thing that all of
us are very very interested in terms of
making money in the stock market market
but at the same time we should be
equally considerate in terms of
increasing our earning potential now one
way of doing that is to learn trending
skills especially the skills that are
going to create a massive impact on the
future so as Per a recent study which
was done by World economic Forum
approximately 85 million people are
going to lose jobs due to AI or
artificial intelligence it is going to
have a massive impact on the world so
say narrative that we have to pick AI
related skills now one great way an
absolutely free way of learning about AI
is to attend the workshop by growth
school who are the partners of today's
video they are running a workshop and if
you are watching this video you can
attend this workshop for free it's
available to viewers who will use the
link in the description and comment box
to sign up for the workshop so for you
guys it will be absolutely free of cost
please remember that it is only
applicable to First 1,000 participants
who are signing up using the link in the
description and comment box the first
1,000 people to sign up will get a bonus
worth 2,000 rupe for free usually this
is a paid Workshop but this has been
made free for my viewers now on this
Workshop you will learn a series of
tools and techniques related to
artificial intelligence and chat GPT so
irrespective of whichever industry you
come from be it freelance ing be Finance
be Tech this Workshop is going to be
hyper useful for you this has been
attended by more than 1 million students
all across the globe who have derived
tremendous value from this workshop and
you can do the same so I highly
recommend you to register for this
workshop and start learning more about
AI so on that note let me jump right
into the video and help you understand
the difference between lowrisk mid- risk
and highrisk investment opportunities in
the market right now see if the market
itself Falls so right now we are
somewhere around 22,000
now if the market Falls to somewhere
around let's say 20,000
so most likely almost 90 95% of the
stocks are going to crash why because
this is an entire Market correction
so that are you bullish about the market
are you thinking that market is going to
go sideways or are you bearish about the
market so clity then you should not
invest you should stay on the sidelines
watch the show a little bit when you get
the confidence of invest think you know
6 to 12 months markets are going to give
a run up then you come and invest okay
so that is a very basic common sensical
point but this perspective needs to be
for at least 6 to 12 months you cannot
just go and you know video I'm shooting
this video on like
Thursday and then you start trembling no
you are working with the Assumption what
is going to happen in the market in 6 to
12 months time okay this is very very
important Point most of us miss that so
on that note you need to have a
hypothesis of investing 6 to 12 months
so here is my one minute quick summary
on this topic see before elections or
around elections there is a lot of
volatility in the market volatility
Market is this happening yes number two
point that during this volatile phase
you should look at mini phases when
investors are not very enthusiastic
about the market there is a little bit
of mongering
Happening by using something called as
Market mood index for example Market
mood index it shows the collective
sentiment in the absolute short-term
basis so you can see that this is in the
fear Zone in fact extreme fear so that
was again from a short-term perspective
was a good time to buy so to say okay so
if you are able to explore these type of
mini phases then that definitely becomes
a good time to invest final point that
you must understand something called as
macro triggers I've been saying it
repeatedly over the last month I'll
again say it see macro
triggers something from macroeconomics
point of view is going to favor the
stock market and that according to me is
something called as interest rate Cuts
okay right now the interest rates in the
US market is effectively somewhere
around 6% they are likely to be brought
down to 3%
now
6%% now how soon that is the only thing
that people are
debating interest rate cut and you know
market then the news came out and a lot
of confusion is going on right now that
is probably the best time to play this
theme right and therefore I investing
more and more in the market as of now
over the next 10 15 days I'm going to
invest very heavily whenever I see a
market correction May we are going to
buy big big and sit tight and wait for
these interest rate to get cut now a lot
of counter responses will come you know
what akat interest rates might take a
year to play out yes definitely but what
we are more concerned about is factoring
of interest rate now what is the meaning
of factoring of interest
rate interest rate now that is not some
hidden news of course interest rates are
going to get cut the confusion is
around right now when almost everyone's
mind is made up you know what boss now
interest rates are definitely going to
get cut that means that the market has
absorbed this information
and so right now in the market when we
are sitting in mid of Feb 202 for this
Clarity on when the interest rates are
going to get cut is not there okay
everyone understands that interest rate
is going to get cut so from that note if
you want to benefit from this theme it
is not a bad time to invest playing this
theme right now in the market confusion
this Clarity will emerge over the next 1
to two months and therefore I feel that
there will be a mini rally because of
this so I hope that this point is clear
then comes the second key
aspect okay it really depends on your
risk appetite for example if you want to
buy lowrisk stuff then go to mutual
funds what type of mutual funds for
example up
small the chances of Correction Still
Remains high so what you should rather
do is that go with something like hybrid
so that is a better option and a
slightly more safer option if you go to
stocks like HDFC bank or kch bank
is highest ever profits highest ever
revenues is one of the lowest so from
that note this will be considered as a
lowrisk opportunity because the chances
of fall in either of these segments is
not more than like
15% okay so this is very reasonable so
to say now what are mid risk
opportunities now if you start playing
around with individual small cap midcap
stocks these would be considered in the
mid to highrisk categories if you go to
micro cap now in a growing environment
growing business environment when the
interest rates will be cut there will be
a rally or there is very high chances
that small and midgap companies are
going to Rally a lot by using specific
examples but to cut the long story short
in a good business environment or in an
environment where interest rates are low
midcaps small caps micro caps are all
going to Rally they are going to double
triple 5x 6X in their size so on that
note these are mid- risk and high-risk
opportunities
because market then of course these
things have the potential to rise also
but at the same time they have massive
chances of Correction also so therefore
these would be categorized as mid to
highrisk Opportunities so you need to be
very clear which bucket you are trying
to pick so I hope that this first part
is clear to everyone that what is the
macro theme playing out now let me use
specific examples and go into specific
stocks so let us go asset and stockwise
and let us start tagging every
opportunity as mid low high risk and I
will also potentially talk about how
much money can you make from this
opportunity of course these are my
estimates they can of course be off but
at least it will give you one side of
the entire equation and cont Viewpoint
and make up your own mind so let's begin
and the first key thing that you will
see from this chart is that I have sold
my it index 50% of it and I have
reinvested that money into something
like Bank Nifty or Bank bees which is
the bank
index and what type of opportunity is
this well this is a lowrisk opportunity
why because index to
for
examp
months that was the time that I
purchased it index I made like 36 37%
gains in 6 seven months on it
index now I have done profit booking on
it I did not run behind TCS and infosis
and all these midgap it companies this
that because the way you need to think
is or the I was actually thinking was if
you are able to pick like a low risk
opportunity you are able to put big
money behind that there is a huge
difference in investing 5 lakhs on a
midcap
opportunity right but on the flip side
if you invest let's say 2 cres and if
you
imag you invest 2 cres and you get like
35 36% gain absolute profit to 7 lakhs
in that 6 months so Quantum of money is
also important aspect to consider and
when you are putting very big money you
have to be considerate about the risk so
picking those low risk opportunity makes
sense so back to
topic I have sold 50% of it index and
rotated that Capital to bank
index so okay so this was a chart that I
was showing right when I started buying
it index so I had purchased it somewhere
here right
and
36% it was moving in this channel so I
categorically said
this is likely to move in this range
right unless the market you know it
gives a decisive breakout and creates
another channel so this can still very
well fundamentally speaking I do not
see but I feel that companies like TCS
infosis are now at a fair PE
value there are fundamental issues in it
Industries still
valuation has actually increased now why
the valuation has increased because it
has already given 36% run up so there
for booking profits made a lot of sense
to
me okay now use little bit of brein so
first and foremost thing up top Nifty
bank so this is the bank index it is
right now trading 5% from its stock okay
so there is a little bit of margin of
safety so to say by 5% discount with the
m
right right so that's point one point
two if you check the valuation and
pre so from pre-o Level it has been
almost four years so in four years it
has given 45% run up
so on Bank index now maybe is a slow
growth IND
so
okay so for example if you check private
bank right so let's pick HDFC which is
my favorite bank so alltime high profits
alltime High revenues
so it has doubled its Revenue it has
doubled its profit and how much has the
stock price moved so if you go to HDFC
Bank the stock price has not moved at
all right so it is here,
1446 and preo preo it was like 1300 so
hardly any growth has happened same has
happened with kch bank same has happened
with SBI same has happened with a bunch
of other stocks so public sector Bank
private sector bankal not too many banks
have given a run up barring a few PSU
Banks so to say okay corporate Banks May
top tier Blue Chip large cap corporate
Banks it is clearly undervalued right so
that is what I will simply say it is a
lowrisk opportunity
whatever profits I'm making I'm happy
putting it not a problem I okay holding
it I have confidence on my analysis and
I will
put I can help you understand the
rational then it is your call okay now
see why am I calling stocks like HDFC
Bank cotch Bank as safe stocks because
see there is a very clear industry
growth that is there in banking there is
very clear growth in their assets for
example balance sheet strong for example
reses which is company's own money that
itself has doubled over the last four
years so why is it that the stock will
not give
up for example just use your brain HDFC
Bank despite having such high revenues
profits how has the stock price being
kept low this is a very interesting
question to explore to is see sometimes
what ends up happening is PE contraction
contraction PE G so if PE contraction of
a stock happens then despite the
companies giving very high earnings
profits revenues whatever good good
numbers you look at the stock price will
not move the stock price might in fact
fall now can this be permanently done
the short answer is no and for example
if you go on the PE
tab in average of something like HDFC
bank is around 20
right now it is at 15 PE so p is almost
right P has been made half okay now PE
is a game of sentiments right so
sentiment so the same industry for
example right and the same
industry now the company has done
everything well right there is nothing
off in a high interest rate environment
the Nim is going to go low it's as
simple as that the provisioning
requirements will be High
new right by
big people start
pcking the stock is solid it's gold from
that perspective I see no problem in
terms of buying Bank bees or or save
things like HDFC Bank
counter it did not move despite it
posting very good
profit for example if you take this
phase right so for example 2013 all the
way till 2019
and 2022 it gave almost 0% run up okay
2013 say 2022 0% run up and then if you
would have bought it somewhere here
right in this Zone and held it somewhere
here you would have made a lot of money
go and check akas ITC you would see me
buying it in this range only I could not
make 100% profits on ITC but I made like
good 60 70% profit on ITC in a very
short span of time so was very happy
with that
purchase for that you need to again go
back and check and profit numbers so for
example take a look from this phase 2012
say 2022 right
doubling
for
201 right in 2022 right Revenue right so
31 say 60 from here to here 2022 again
double right so
HD
Andes right so therefore it's unlikely
that HDFC will behave the way ITC had
behaved ITC doubling profit revenues key
in 10 years in HDFC it doubled in 4
years now this is not just HDFC story
now this is the same story for a bunch
of private banks in India now on that
note let me give a very quick snippet on
a public sector bank which I had been
bullish about I had been buying i' had
been talking about it consistently on my
YouTube member Community also again I
would request all of you to join it it's
a very useful Community I give very
quick updates I cannot make videos
really fast but what Market updates are
happening I can summarize it and present
it in a sensible manner which you can
easily absorb so join the link is in the
description and comment box it will give
you very interesting commentary it will
increase your confidence in investing
I've spoken about SBI multiple times
there and i' had shown you all the
levels
so so on SBI I had made a video a few
days earlier and I had said that we are
likely to see a very quick 16% gain
right and again if you just go and check
the fundamental data on SBI again the
same stuff right I mean there is nothing
like you know off happening on SBI
right for example PR analysis SBI is at
a p of 9.88 Punjab National Bank just
may which I have sold I rotated that
Capital to SBI and SBI me now I'm
sitting on roughly 26 27% profit since
the time I've bought it
pnb 19 SBI is working at half that P so
why is it that SBI P will not rise or
opposite could happen that pnv P follow
so in either of these scenarios if
you're bullish on the banking industry
then you need to have these type of
stocks in your portfolio these are
lowrisk assets now why am I calling this
low risk asset because baring a very
minute chance
under General circumstances General
economic conditions it is very very
unlikely that these type of stocks will
correct by more than 15 20% unless you
are buying them at very high valuation
this is the most important point for
example National Bank so now it is
already at 19p right and its pers are at
like 910p so because you are buying
Punjab National Bank at very high
valuation the chances are that it might
happen that
it just stops right it just keeps on
going sideways and it becomes a problem
for
youc and that to for a company which is
generating very high revenues very high
profits so I hope that this story is
clear where do I see HDFC bank and SBI
going from this point if I have to give
you some numbers I definitely do see
HDFC Bank giving a 30% odd gager over
the next 2 to 3 years 30
30% something around 20 25% K is
something that I'm expecting on SBI how
am I reaching those numbers so tomorrow
I will try to write a post on community
membership so low risk
assets risk
asss and there are four specific things
that you need to keep in mind the first
is
that for example something is happening
right now in Pharma something is
happening in chemical
consumer durables so these are all pity
P Industries for what reason they got
pity that's an entirely different
conversation but right
now you will clearly seea chemical
consumer
durabl industry similarly private sector
banks are also P industry so in this
turnaround chances are very very high
oppos for example right real stocks
OPP that's a simple Point okay so this
is one second is that in those specific
companies that you are touching the
numbers or the profit revenues growth
rate should be fairly High okay the
valuation from a PE point of view should
not be very high because when you are
trying to buy risky stocks what is it
that you are trying to do well you are
trying to probably pick bets that can go
3x 5x in the next 3 years
so so that's a problem so therefore you
have to buy when companies are at lower
PE finally the size of the company
should be small for
example for example Gio Finance now
market cap of the company itself is very
big so Gio Finance is a very good 2x bet
Finance but I don't think that it is a
5x 10x bet in the next 3
years but it's
right so that is the
view from that lens let me analyze a
couple of stocks this is not a
recommendation whatever you want to do
but I will just simply apply this
framework and show it to you just say
the first stock that I have been
commenting on Is noama wealth right and
yesterday it gave like around 12% on up
today it gave 8% run up okay 8 9% run up
8.77 now already I built my position on
this right I had been commenting a lot
on this stock also
and results were exceptionally
[Music]
good but from that perspective p is also
not very high for a small cap midcap
type of a company on top of that the
company is into wealth
management for example go check product
segment you will see wealth management
business majority Revenue now the wealth
management industry in India itself is
growing at 12 to 15% now which is a good
strong brand organization that is
backing noama wealth so that it is
formerly wealth
management
not so from that perspective it's not as
if it's already in a growth industry
valuation wealth management is in a turn
aroundc Asset
Management last months so I feel wealth
management is a good space to be in over
the next 5 years typically in India this
type of company can go 3x to 5x
so on top of
that numbers have been great result
size of the company was small and market
cap was small so from that perspective
it is according to me a 3X 5x type of a
growth
story when you are trying to get
companies which can go 5x 3x 50 60%
correction buying like
a00 if a big investor pulls out 200
so please have this basic Common Sense
okay so again that same story so
something with like solar now this is a
company that I'm buying
why March 2022 okay solar industry which
is the biggest problem that you will
face regulation
all that so you have to believe in the
concept if Reliance is backing it up
regulations okay SW solar is what it is
an EPC engineering procurement
construction now how does EPC business
survive well by getting contracts now
what is contract dating it's Jala game
okay so why is it that Reliance will be
unable to get contracts for like this
company
okay
and because once the order book is there
then they going to fill it then
recog so all those basic basic points
are there
2022 for example if this hypothesis
turns right you'll have to then buy it
at 3x 5x the entire game okay now why am
I buying s SW Sol as of
now used to be
14 so almost three three and a half
times quick succession okay now another
quick thing about suon if you study the
fall of suon right so number one fall or
the biggest fall on sulon came from 355
rupes
and why because of 2008 crisis something
similar you'll
notice why because of 2020
crisis the crisis phas is there 2008
crisis 2020
crisis why because the capital is not
there to support these type of
projects and they are only able to do it
when they have money lying around and
during such phases 2008 2020 uncertainty
phase so with that lens if we just
quickly go and study
solar
2020 it kept on going sideways sideway
sideway
Sideways from this year onwards okay
and 300 now it as 580 it's not as if ke
it has gone up like crazy right for
example if you look at the market cap it
is only 135,000 not that big compared to
Suson and all so can it double from this
point yes can it double with reliance's
help yes okay that's the bet that I'm
taking you have to do your own analysis
and confidence then you can buy these
type of highrisk
opportunities I wanted to discuss more
stocks which was slightly in the risk
category but I think the video will
become really long but I hope that you
got the fundamentals perspective and you
will be able to do your own research
tomorrow I will write a detailed note on
some of the multibagger opportunities
that I'm considering so I will write
this note in the next 2 to 3 days on
member community and I will continue to
share my market updates so again if
you're a serious investor and need help
with more research
and so definitely join the YouTube
member Community everything is taught as
per the recent things that are happening
in the market so
and that actually adds to your knowledge
repository thank you so much for
watching I hope you enjoyed this video
and I will see you soon