before going back to the questions
please don't forget to subscribe the
channel and press the Bell icon to the
questions question one a company employs
a team of customer service agents to
provide telephone and email support to
customers the company develops a web
chat bot to provide automated answers to
Common customer queries Which business
benefit should they expect as a result
of creating the web chat bot solution
our options are a a increased sales B A
reduced workload for the customer
service agents C improved product
reliability the correct option is B A
reduced workload for the customer
service
agents question two for a machine
learning progress how should you split
data for training and evaluation our
options are a use features for training
and labels for evaluation
B randomly split the data into rows for
training and rows for
evaluation C use labels for training and
features for
evaluation D randomly split the data
into columns for training and columns
for evaluation the correct answer is B
randomly split the data into rows for
training and rows for
evaluation use split rows not columns
the split data module is particularly
useful when you need to separate data
into training and testing sets use the
split rows option if you want to divide
the data into two parts you can specify
the percentage of data to put in each
split but by default the data is divided
50/50 you can also randomize the
selection of rows in each group and use
stratified
exampling question three you build a
machine learning model by using the
Automated machine learning user
interface you need to ensure that the
model meets the Microsoft transparency
principle for responsible AI what should
you do our options are a set validation
type to Auto B enable explain best model
C set primary metric to accuracy D set
max concurrent iterations to zero the
correct answer is B
enable explain best
model model explain ability most
businesses run on trust and being able
to open the ml blackbox helps build
transparency and Trust in heavily
regulated Industries like healthcare and
banking it is critical to comply with
regulations and best practices one key
aspect of this is understanding the
relationship between input variables and
model output knowing both the magnitude
and direction of the impact each feature
has on the predicted value helps better
understand and explain the model with
model explainability we enable you to
understand feature importance as part of
automated ml
runs question four hotspot for each of
the following statements select yes if
the statement is true otherwise select
no note each correct selection is worth
one point
answer area to the statements
forecasting housing prices based on
historical data is an example of anomaly
detection the correct answer is no to
the next one identifying suspicious
sinins by looking for deviations from
usual patterns is an example of anomaly
detection the correct answer is yes to
the next one predicting whether a
patient will develop diabetes based on
the patient medical history is an
example of anomaly detection the correct
answer is
no statement a refers to regression
statement B refers to anomaly and
statement C refers to classification
anomaly detection incompasses many
important tasks in machine learning
identifying transactions that are
potentially fraudulent learning patterns
that indicate that a network intrusion
has occurred finding abnormal clusters
of patients checking values entered into
a system question five hotspot to
complete the sentence select the
appropriate option in the answer area
answer area the handling of unusual or
missing values provided to an AI system
is a consideration for the Microsoft
Dash principle for responsible AI our
options are
inclusiveness privacy and security
reliability and safety
transparency the correct option is
reliability and
safety reliability and safety AI systems
need to be reliable and safe in order to
be trusted it is important for a system
to perform as it was originally designed
and for it to respond safely to new
situations its inherent resilience
should resist intended or unintended
manipulation rigorous testing and
validation should established for
operating conditions to ensure that the
system responds safely to edge cases and
a/b testing and Champion SL Challenger
methods should be integrated into the
evaluation process an AI system
performance can degrade over time so a
robust monitoring and model tracking
process needs to be established to
reactively and proactively measure the
model's performance and retrain it as
necessary to modernize it
question six you are designing an AI
system that empowers everyone including
people who have hearing and visual and
other
impairments this is an example of which
Microsoft guiding principle for
responsible AI our options are a
fairness b inclusiveness c reliability
and safety D accountability the correct
option is B incl
inclusiveness at Microsoft we firmly
believe everyone should benefit from
intelligent technology meaning it must
incorporate and address a broad range of
human needs and experiences for the 1
billion people with disabilities around
the world AI Technologies can be a game
changer question seven you are building
an AI system which task should you
include to ensure that the service meet
the Microsoft transparency principle for
responsible AI our options are a ensure
that all visuals have an Associated text
that can be read by a screen reader B
enable autoscaling to ensure that the
service scales based on demand C provide
documentation to help developers debug
code D ensure that a training data set
is representative of the population the
correct answer is C provide
documentation to help developers debug
code question eight your company is
exploring the use of voice recognition
Technologies in its smart home devices
the company wants to identify any
barriers that might unintentionally
leave out specific user groups this is
an example of which Microsoft guiding
principle for responsible AI our option
are a accountability B fairness c
inclusiveness d privacy and security the
correct answer is C
inclusiveness inclusiveness this means
that no one is left
out question n what are three Microsoft
guiding principles for responsible AI
each correct answer presents a complete
solution note each correct section is
worth one point our options are a
knowledgeability b decisiveness c
inclusiveness d fairness e
opinionated and F reliability and safety
the correct options are c d and f that
is inclusiveness fairness and
reliability and
safety the the six guiding principles
are fairness inclusiveness transparency
privacy and security reliability and
safety and
accountability question 10 to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
returning a bounding box that indicates
the location of a vehicle in an image is
an example of our options are image
classification object detection Optical
Character
recognizer semantic
segmentation the correct answer is
object detection object detection is the
correct answer setic segmentation can
seem tempting at first but that is more
about classifying individual pixels
based on their
objects question 11 hotspot to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
Dash is used to generate additional
features our options are feature
engineering feature selection model
evaluation model training the correct
option is feature
engineering
explanation feature engineering is
applied first to generate additional
features and then feature selection is
done to eliminate irrelevant redundant
or highly correlated features question
12 urun is a charity event that involves
posting photos of people wearing
sunglasses on Twitter you need to ensure
that you only retweet photos that meet
the following
requirements include one or more faces
contain at least one person wearing
sunglasses what should you use to
analyze the images our options are a the
verify operation in the face service B
the detect operation in the face service
C the describe image operation in the
computer vision service D the analyze
image operation in the computer vision
service the correct option is B the
detect operation in the phase
service phase detect can be requested to
also detect glasses attribute question
13 when you design an AI system to
assess whether loans should be approved
the factors used to make the decision
should be explainable this is an example
example of which Microsoft guiding
principle for responsible AI our options
are a
transparency b
inclusiveness c fairness D privacy and
security the correct answer is a
transparency achieving transparency
helps the team to understand the data
and algorithms used to train the model
what transformation log was applied to
the data the final model generated and
and its Associated assets this
information offers insights about how
the model was created which allows it to
be reproduced in a transparent way
question 14 drag drop match the
principles of responsible AI to
appropriate requirements to answer drag
the appropriate principles from the
column on the left to its requirement on
the right each principle may be used
once more than once or not at all you
may need to drag the split bar between
pains or scroll to view content note
each correct selection is worth one
point select and place the principles
given to us are fairness privacy and
security reliability and safety and
transparency to the answer area the
first statement is the system must not
discriminate based on gender race the
correct option here is fairness to the
next statement personal data must be
visible only to approve the correct
option here is privacy and security to
the last statement automated decision
making processes must be recorded So
that approved users can identify why a
decision was made the correct option is
transparency question 15 drag drop you
plan to deploy an Azure machine learning
model as a service that will be used by
client applications which three
processes should you perform in sequence
before you deploy the model to answer
move the appropriate processes from the
list of processes to the answer area and
arrange them in the correct order select
and place the processes provided to us
are data encryption model retraining
model training data preparation model
evaluation the correct sequence here
would be data preparation model training
model evaluation
question 16 you are building an AI based
app you need to ensure that the app uses
the principles for responsible AI which
two principles should you follow each
correct answer presents part of the
solution note each correct selection is
worth one point our options
are a Implement an agile software
development methodology B Implement a
process of AI model validation as part
of the software review process C
establish a risk governance committee
that includes members of the legal team
members of the risk management team and
a privacy officer D prevent the
disclosure of the use of AI based
algorithms for automated decision making
the correct answer is B and C that is
Implement a process of AI model
validation as part of the software
review process and establish a risk
governance committee that includes
members of the legal team members of the
risk management team and a privacy
officer B ensures reliability and safety
principle and C ensures privacy and
security principle of
AI question 17 hotspot to complete the
sentence select the appropriate option
in the answer area answer area according
to Microsoft's Dash principle of
responsible ai ai systems should not
reflect biases from the data sets that
are used to train the systems our
options are accountability fairness
inclusiveness transparency the correct
option is
fairness question 18 hotspot to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
data values that influence the
prediction of a model are called our
options are dependent variables features
identifiers labels the correct option is
features question 19 which type of
machine learning should you use to
predict the number of gift cards that
will be sold next month our options are
a classification B regression C
clustering the correct answer is B
regression in the most basic sense
regression refers to the prediction of a
numeric Target linear regression
attempts to establish a linear
relationship between one or more
independent variables and a numeric
outcome or dependent variable
you use this module to Define a linear
regression method and then train a model
using a labeled data set the train model
can then be used to make
predictions question 20 you have a data
set that contains information about taxi
Journeys that occur during a given
period you need to train a model to
predict the fair of a taxi Journey what
should you use as a feature our options
are a the number of Taxi Journeys in the
data set B the trip distance of
individual taxi Journeys C the fair of
individual taxi Journeys D the trip ID
of individual taxi Journeys the correct
answer is B the trip distance of
individual taxi Journeys the label is
the column you want to predict the
identified features are the inputs you
give the model to predict the label from
the example given below the trip
underscore time underscore in UND
underscore seconds is the only column
that is not a feature this is because
you want to predict the fear of the trip
before the trip is completed at that
moment you don't know how long the trip
would take thus trip time is not a
feature and du shall exclude this column
from the
model question 21 you need to predict
the ca level in meters for the next 10
years which type of machine learning
should Studio use our options are a
classification B regression C clustering
the correct answer is B
regression in the most basic sense
regression refers to prediction of in
numeric Target linear regression
attempts to establish a linear
relationship between one or more
independent variables and a numeric
outcome or dependent variable you use
this module to Define a linear
regression method and then train a model
using label data set the train model can
then be used to make
predictions question 22 hotspot to
complete the sentence select the
appropriate option in the answer area
answer area a banking system that
predicts whether a loan will be repaid
is an example of the dash type of
machine learning our options are
classification regression
clustering the correct answer is
classification classification as the
prediction whether the loan will be
repaid or not whether means class
categorically answer as yes or no hence
classification question 23 which service
should you use to extract text key /
value payers and table data
automatically from scan documents our
options are a form recognizer B text
analytics C language understanding D
custom Vision the correct answer is a
form
recognizer accelerate your business
processes by automating information
extraction form recognizer applies
Advanced machine learning to accurately
extract text key/value Pairs and tables
from documents with just a few samples
form recognizer tailors its
understanding to your documents both on
premise and in the cloud turn forms into
usable data at a fraction of the time
and cost so you can focus more time
acting on the information rather than
compiling
it question 24 hotspot to complete the
sentence select the appropriate option
in the answer area answer area the
ability to extract sub totals and totals
from a reip is a capability of the dash
service our op options are custom Vision
form recognizer ink recognizer text
analytics the correct answer is form
recognizer accelerate your business
processes by automating information
extraction form recognizer applies
Advanced machine learning to accurately
extract text key value Pairs and tables
from documents with just a few examples
form recogn tailor its understanding to
your documents both on premise and in
the cloud turn forms into usable data at
a fraction of the time and cost so you
can focus more time acting on the
information rather than compiling
it question 25 you use Aur machine
learning designer to publish an
inference pipeline which two parameters
should you use to access the web service
each correct answer presents part of the
solution note each cor selection is
worth one point our options are a the
model name B the training endpoint C the
authentication key and D the rest end
point the correct answer is C and D that
is the authentication key and the rest
end
point you can consume a published
pipeline in the published pipeline page
select a published Pipeline and find the
rest end point of it
to consume the pipeline you need the
rest end point for your service the
primary key for your
service question 26 hotspot to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
from aure machine learning designer to
deploy a real-time inference pipeline as
a service for others to consume you must
deploy the model to our options are a
local web service a z container
instances
aure kubernetes Services aure machine
learning compute the correct answer is
aure kubernetes
services to perform realtime inferencing
you must deploy a pipeline as a realtime
endpoint Real Time end points must be
deployed to an Azure kubernetes service
cluster question 27 hotspot to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
predicting how many hours of overtime a
delivery person will work based on the
number of order received is an example
of our options are classification
clustering regression the correct option
is
regression again in the most basic sense
regression refers to prediction of a
numeric Target linear regression
attempts to establish a linear
relationship ship between one or more
independent variables and a numeric
outcome or dependent variable you use
this module to Define a linear
regression method and then train a model
using label data set the trained model
can then be used to make
predictions question 28 a medical
research project uses a large anonymized
data set of brain scan images that are
categorized into predefined brain
hemorrage types you need to use machine
learning to support early detection of
the different brain hemorrage types in
the images before the images are
reviewed by a person this is an example
of which type of machine learning our
options are a clustering B regression C
classification the correct answer is C
classification this is
classification there are multiple
reasons for this the trading data is
already tagged as with the correct type
of hamage classification can be done for
more than two clusters you do clustering
on group of inputs for example the scans
of 10 people you can cluster a single
input clearly you got a new scan of a
new patient and you want to know what
that scan shows you don't have a group
scans to Cluster clustering gives no
labels you just get groups and don't
know what the label is but in this
question it is very clear that they want
to know know the label that belongs to
the new scan thus it is
classification question 29 when training
a model why should you randomly split
the rowes into separate subsets our
options are a to train the model twice
to attain better accuracy B to train
multiple models simultaneously to attain
better performance C to test the model
by using data that was not used to train
the model the correct option is C to
test the model by using data that was
not used to train the
model first we use the data set for
training and then for
evaluation he is referring to the famous
Trainor testore split that everyone uses
to split the data set into train and
test sets you lose statistical Power by
estimating on a subset n like 50% of
original n that's the price you pay for
splitting data
for example a normally independently
distributed X has an estimator of
arithmetic mean X whose variance
inversely related to n bigger sample is
a better for accuracy of a simple
arithmetic mean question 30 you are
evaluating whether to use a basic
workspace or an Enterprise workspace in
Azure machine learning what are two
tasks that require an Enterprise
workspace each correct answer presents a
a complete solution note each cor
selection is worth one point our options
are a use a graphical user interface to
run Automated machine learning
experiments B create a compute instance
to use as a workstation C use a
graphical user interface to Define and
run machine learning experiments from
aure machine learning designer D create
a data set from a comma separated value
CSV file the correct answers are A and C
that is use a graphical user interface
to run automated machine learning
experiments and to use a graphical user
interface to Define and run machine
learning experiments from aure machine
learning
designer note Enterprise workspaces are
no longer available as of September 2020
the basic workspace now has all the
functionality of the Enterprise
workspace question 31 you need need to
predict the income range of a given
customer by using the following data set
which two Fields should you use as
features each correct answer presents a
complete solution note each correct
selection is worth one point our options
are a education level B last name c age
D income range and E first name the
correct options are a and C that is
education level and
age first name last name age and
education level are features income
range is a
label first name and last name are
Irrelevant in that they have no bearing
on income age and education level are
the features you should
use question 32 you are building a tool
that will process images from retail
stores and identify the product of
competitors the solution will use a
custom model which asure cognitive
Services service should you use our
options are a custom Vision B form
recognizer C face D computer vision the
correct answer is a custom
Vision as your custom vision is an image
recognition service that lets you build
deploy and improve your own image
identifier models an image identifier
applies labels to images according to
their detected visual characteristics
unlike the computer vision service
custom Vision allows you to specify your
own labels and train custom models to
detect
them question 33 what are two metrics
that you can use to evaluate a
regression model each correct answer
presents a complete solution note each
correct selection is worth one point our
options are a coefficient of
determination
R2 B fub1 score C root means squared
error D area under curve and E balanced
accuracy the correct answer is a and C
that is coefficient of determination and
root means squared
error about a r s or coefficient of
determination represents the predictive
power of the model as a value between
INF and
1. 1. means there is a perfect fit and
the fit can be arbitrarily poor so the
scores can be negative about C RMS loss
or root mean squar error also called
root mean Square deviation rmsd measures
the difference between values predicted
by a model and the values observed from
the environment that is being modeled
small tip if it is regression model then
remember R and the corresponding answer
will be R2 and
rmsc question 34 which type of machine
learning should you use to identify
group of people who have similar
purchasing habits our options are a
classification B regression C clustering
the correct answer is C
clustering clustering is a machine
learning task that is used to group
instances of data into clusters that
contain similar characteristics
clustering can also be used to identify
relationships in a data
set question 35 hotspot to complete the
sentence select the appropriate option
in the answer area answer area Dash
models can be used to predict the sale
price of auction item our options are
classification clustering regression the
correct answer is
regression regression is a machine
learning task that is used to predict
the value of the label from a set of
related
features question 36 which metric can
you use to evaluate a classification
model our options are a to positive rate
b mean absolute error C coefficient of
determination D root mean squared error
the correct answer is a through positive
rate what does a good model look like an
Roc curve that approaches the top left
corner with 100% true positive rate and
0% false positive rate will be the best
model a random model would display as a
flat line from the bottom left left to
the top right corner verse then random
would dip below the Y is equal to X
line question 37 which two components
can you drag onto a canvas in aure
machine learning designer each correct
answer presents a complete solution note
each correct selection is worth one
point our options are a data set B
compute C pipeline D module the correct
answers are are A and D that is data set
and
module you can drag and drop data sets
and modules onto the canvas aure machine
learning designer lets you visually
connect data sets and modules on an
interactive canvas to create machine
learning
models question 38 you need to create a
training data set and validation data
set from an existing data set which
module in the aun machine learning
designer should you use of options are a
select columns in data set B add rows C
split data D join
data the correct answer is C split
data a common way of evaluating a model
is to divide the data into a training
and test set by using split data and
then validate the model on the training
data use the split data module to Dev
divide a data set into two distinct sets
the studio currently supports training
SL validation data
splits question 39 drag drop match the
types of machine learning to the
appropriate scenarios to answer drag the
appropriate machine learning type from
the column on the left to its scenario
on the right each machine learning type
may be used once more than once or not
at all note each cor selection is worth
one point select and Place Learning
types classification clustering and
regression to the answer area statement
one predict how many minutes late a
flight will arrive based on the amount
of snowfall at an airport the correct
answer here would be regression to the
next statements segment customers into
different groups to support a marketing
department the correct answer here would
be clustering to the last statement
predict whether a student will complete
a university course the correct answer
here would be
classification in box one regression
again in the most basic sense refer to
prediction of a numeric Target linear
degression attempts to establish a
linear relationship between one or more
independent variables and a numeric
outcome or dependent variable you use
this module to Define a linear
regression method and then train a model
using a label data set the train model
can then be used to make predictions in
box two clustering in machine learning
is a method of grouping data points into
similar clusters it is also called
segmentation over the years many
clustering algorithms have been
developed almost all clustering
algorithms use the features of
individual items to find similar items
for example
you might apply clustering to find
similar people by demographics you might
use clustering with text analysis to
group sentences with similar topics or
sentiment in box three two class
classification provides the answer to
simple two choice questions such as yes/
no or true/
false question 40 hotspot to complete
the sentence select the appropriate
option in the answer area answer area
Dash is calculated probability of a
correct image classification our options
are
accuracy confidence root mean square
error sentiment the correct answer is
confidence