Aston Martin is gunning for Red Bull
with its 2024 F1 car which has revealed
a key change that Mercedes has made
Aston Martin started last year as Red
Bull's closest Challenger and has made
changes all over with its 2024 car which
it hopes will be able to fight for a
first win in this identity the last
victory coming as racing point in 2020
it has adopted the view that redol is
absolutely beatable in 2024 with
technical director Dan Fallows declaring
Aston Martin is very pleased with what
we've been able to achieve but this is
the first step what Mercedes has done
will play a significant role in that
we've long since known that Mercedes
wanted to make a big mechanical platform
change with its 2024 car after 2 years
of struggling to crack this era of
technical regulations and the AMR 24
gives us the first clues of what
Mercedes has done one of the
developments Aston Martin has
highlighted on its new car is a key
Mercedes driven change so it's the
suspension where we need to look but not
at the front there Aston Martin retains
the push rod configuration it ran last
year with a similar layout although the
Upper Front Wishbone seems to have some
downward shaping towards the wheel and
the rearward leg may have a lower
inboard mounting this is likely to be to
achieve anti-dive a key part of the
mechanical platform control Mastered by
Red Bull keeping the aerodynamics in a
more steady state under heavy braking
that's a more subtle change on the Aston
Martin but at the rear it has switched
from pull Rod to push rod and this is
where Mercedes comes
in Aston Martin uses the latest
specification Mercedes gearbox and rear
suspension as part of its supp IDE deal
with the team therefore the fact Aston
Martin now has a push rod rear
configuration is significant as it means
Mercedes has it too as Aston technical
director Dan phow says it has been
inherited push rod rear suspension
configuration provides improved
aerodynamic opportunity the pull rod and
push rod do much the same thing it's
just that one pulls on The Rocker to
actuate it and the other pushes but this
configuration offers some advantages as
the push rod is mounted High inboard and
low outboard this allows the gearbox
potentially to be a little narrower at
the front and can help ensure cleaner
air flow at the rear of the car Aston
Martin says the rear suspension design
has been optimized to maximize
efficiency of air flow around the rear
wing this is all part of a change in
suspension that Mercedes has produced to
improve the all important platform
control of the car last year Mercedes
started the season with a car that was
an evolution of its 2022 machine this
was based on the belief that having got
on top of the bouncing and purposing
problems that blighted it the car would
fundamentally work that proved misplaced
and major changes were made in the car
con cep with a change of development
direction that was introduced at Monaco
in May but this was only a partial shift
as Mercedes was limited by the
fundamental architecture of its car as a
result we expected the monoco design to
be modified for 2024 and we now know the
rear suspension has been changed to
switch to the push rod configuration but
it's not just about that there's also an
increase in the level of antis squat on
the rear suspension to help control how
low the back of the car gets to the
ground this is indicated by the vertical
angle between the forward and the rear
leg of the upper Wishbone and as the
forward W leg is now mounted lower in
board than it was last year the rear leg
is now significantly higher than it
creating a larger angle this is all
about improving the platform control and
should make it easier to run the car low
to the ground to generate prodigious
downforce without bottoming
out while some of Aston Martin's own
ideas from 2023 have moved on we can see
clear inspiration from last year's Red
Bull 2 that's not surprising as Aston
Martin was one of the first teams to
move in Red Bull's Direction in these
regulations and phow said some
convergence is inevitable when a car is
as successful as the rb19 was starting
out the front the nose tip has been
detached from the main plane this has
been a feature on both Red Bulls in this
rule set as the tip of the nose no
longer intersects the main plane there's
a gap created that improves airf flow
under the nose the surface of the nose
tip is also more rounded allowing the
air flow to come off the upper surface
and around the sides with minimal effort
this is the central area that the
diffuser mainly draws its air flow from
so anything that can be done at the
front of the car will will improve the
performance further rearwards the tip
change means the main plane and the
second plane are now attached by six
separators and the real thing looks
different to the renders there are two
connections either side of the main
plane below the tip then two more
towards the end of the wing the second
plane and the wing element above it also
have several slot Gap separators that
weren't pictured on the renders but
these look fairly standard not like the
aerodynamically shaped ones Mercedes
once Tri moving to a favorite area of
change across the 2024 cars launched so
far the side pod Inlet we can see
another step towards the Red Bull
approach Aston Martin already adopted
the extended lower part last year but
its current interpretation is the
closest to the aggressive Red Bull
letter box shape that we first saw on
the rb19 in Hungary last year it results
in a very different side pod Inlet
profile for the AMR 24 and is the best
resemblance to Red Bull's duck bill as
our resident ex technical director Gary
Anderson likes to describe it as further
along the side pod we can see more
changes on the top surface the Aston
Martin Gully water slide feature remains
although it looks narrower than before
with a slightly wider Ridge to the edge
of the side pod on the outside of the
side pod the launch images suggested a
return to the package the team attempted
to implement on the AMR 23 but on the
real thing we can see the whole pod is
more shrink wrapped than before after
what looks like an even more aggressive
initial undercut the side pod has a
slightly bulbous Central section that's
cut shorter than the more elongated
style that Aston Martin ran with for
most of last year the bigger gap between
the Pod and the floor now looks to have
a smoother surface too again that was a
feature of the late 2023 upgrade package
as were the low small side impact
protection system bulge and the Turning
veins on the floor Edge that crop up
again on the 2024 renders although that
sips bulge looks bigger on the real car
that's run at Silverstone it's possible
that ason Martin has found a way to
address the issues with the upgrade
package it trialed late last year and
had to abandon elements of however we
can't rule out elements of this being a
dummy before the car runs in testing and
the first race another example of this
is the rear Wing where the basic design
on the render looks nothing like the
real thing that's running the Shakedown
at Silverstone which looks similar to
what Aston ran in the 2023 Abu Dhabi
finale while the Shakedown has given us
a bit of a steer we'll be on the lookout
for which details are actually the real
deal in
Bahrain fellows has emphasized creating
a strong platform for development with
what's been prioritized on the AMR 24
picking up on a key 2023 weakness phow
said Aston Martin wants to compete in
the development race this season and
this car is designed to do just that
Aston Martin started last season
spectacularly with a run of six Podium
finishes in the first eight races
initially it was Red Bull's biggest
rival and the team talked about closing
the Gap as the season progressed but
that ambition was thwarted and Aston
Martin faded from second in the
Constructor Championship after Monaco to
fifth while life was made Harder by
Rivals improving notably mcclaren's
transformation from back marker to front
runner Aston Martin's Pace relative to
the front also took a hit in the second
half of the season the going got tough
as Alonzo puts it we maybe went in the
wrong direction a few times and
understood it a bit too late the
question is why as well as the struggles
of Rivals helping out early on there was
a run of circuits that masked some of
the weaknesses of the AMR 23 in the
opening races its first downturn came in
Barcelona which exposed the difficulties
the team had in setting up the car to
perform well across a wide range of
corner speeds Alonzo finished second
with the new floor in Canada but this
was a full Dawn as the car lost
performance in the medium and fast
corners and picked up some instability
it's likely this partly lay in some of
the trickier to control aspects of this
current generation of car in terms of
precisely controlling the aerodynamic
Center of pressure shift and the
behavior of the mechanical platform
after various upgrades and experiments
towards the end of the season the team
went back to basics with a mix and match
package that worked well and proved it
understood how to get the best out of
what it had got phow says that work was
relevant for this year's car and the
team expects to put upgrades on the car
with confidence as a result of last
year's
lessons
one consequence of the AMR 24's
performance level is likely to be
Alonzo's future Aston Martin wants to
keep the two-time world champion for
2025 and 2026 but Alonzo has been more
equivocal though Alonzo repeatedly
stated that Aston Martin would be his
first priority he said he would go
through a couple of phases this season
before settling on his future first he
claims he needs to decide if he even
wants to keep racing and if is Alonzo's
word not ours that's partly a reflection
of f1's bulging calendar if F1 is
demanding more race weekends and more
marketing commitments and he feels his
options aren't stunning even Alonzo
could decide enough is enough working
out his options will be the second phase
that Alonzo referenced right now the
driver Market is Shifting massively in
the wake of Lewis Hamilton's shock
decision to leave Mercedes for Ferrari
in 2025 that opens the door to Mercedes
for Alonzo he says there haven't been
any discussions but he will know that
could be a great opportunity very
possibly a better one than leading the
Aston Martin project Alonzo says he does
trust what's going on at Aston Martin
but he also knows that needs to
translate into the right trajectory on
track starting with the improvements he
would love to see in testing better
performance in highspeed corners and
better straight line speed if the AMR 24
doesn't give Alonzo what he needs Alonzo
is happy to exploit what he calls a
privileged position in the dri Market as
one of only three world champions on the
grid and the only available one as
Alonzo claims this will be a question he
gets asked for the first few months of
the year he's clearly in no rush to
commit he knows there's a chance that
ason Martin will need him a lot more
than he needs Aston
Martin