hi everyone welcome to today's video so
let me start today's video by sharing
the story of facebook/
metastock okay meta has gone up by 20%
in a single day return I spoke about
this stock two years ago in fact I built
crazy positions in this stock 2 years
ago 2 years ago go back and check what
was happening in meta massive layoffs us
correction Tech correction B
overvaluation meta will not survive this
that there was so much negative
commentary so much negative commentary
now please note that meta is a large cap
company it is Blue Chip it is one of the
best tech companies in the world and my
return on it was 50% cagr whatever money
I had invested 2 years ago I keep
getting the question and now I'm getting
the
question should we go and invest in meta
stock now can we still make 50% cagr no
it will not happen it is extremely
extremely unlikely that you will see
more than 15 odd per compounding on a
stock like ma because it is fairly large
gap then comes the natural response
right I mean we also want to make like
30% 40% 50% cagr on some of the stocks
so what are the type of stocks you can
buy in the market right now so see
honestly I will tell you straight Point
Blank that by investing in large cap
companies right now when the market is
almost at an all-time high you are not
going to make returns more than 12 15%
why am I saying it am I giving you some
biased information the short answer is
no and this is the math that you need to
know that number one the nifty50 returns
over the last 20 years period cagr is 12
a half% small caps small cap midcap
category then that return gets doubled
so you end up making roughly 25 odd per
cagr if you go to micro cap the returns
are even higher so you can make up to
maybe like 40 odd per returns from micro
cap investing so if you actually want to
make 40 50% returns in this type of a
market then like it or not you will have
to do micro cap investing now is this a
push from my side that micro cap
investing you have to invest money in
micro cap no I'm just simply making this
video to help you understand better what
micro cap investing is how you can apply
a framework to identify good micro cap
stocks how much money you should be
investing I will pick relevant case
studies I will discuss examples please
consider those companies as an example
for example I will help you understand
the agre export business Market in India
that market is growing quite extensively
it's an export oriented Market one of
the key companies I'm going to discuss
it is a micro cap company it is called
as HMA ago Industries limited so that is
an example I will use I will also use
examples of multiple other stocks this
is not a
recommendation please understand the
framework apply this framework to a
bunch of other stocks that you are
considering in the micro cap category
and accordingly you can decide whether
to buy it or not buy it so St and point
number one or question number one that
we will quickly discuss is that should
you even consider doing micro cap
investing and in what type of Market
should you invest in micro cap because
AB I am buying some of the micro caps I
discuss all my strategic moves in my
member community in case you are a
serious investor you want to improve
your investing skills we have created
this community it is India's largest
literally number one Community people
have been benefiting from it for the
last 1 and a half years and you can go
and check the reviews in the description
and comment box Bas in case you are
interested you can check more details so
let's kick start and the first key point
that you need to understand is the
definition of micro cap the large cap
small micro companies in this risk is
also high and potential returns are also
very high now as per standard definition
micro cap but companies that are less
than market cap of 5,000 CR can be
categorized as micro cap companies so
then comes the most important
part micro and why should you consider
the risk of investing in micro cap
companies so okay so let us jump into
this chart this is a very important
chart this blue line exhibits the
returns of micro cap this dark blue line
exhibits the return of
5500 right so yeah or nift 50 return
right so this is these are the returns
this paragraph is very important because
it allows you to understand the impact
of returns so one rupe invested in Nifty
micro cap
250
IND micro it would now become
14884 so 14x G I think this this should
be 1,000 not rupes 1 this is a mistake
that these news people have made now
compare this to Nifty small cap there
the returns are 12x if you go to nifty
50 then returns are 11x and if you go to
Nifty 500 then returns are 10
x% return and this is from the year 2016
right so 2016 say roughly this data is
for 2023 right absolute differential in
return was close to 50% so this is very
very high on how many years we 6 seven
years basis so additional s% per year
gain is additional on micro cap
investing so this is the reward part
that return if you go to micro cap
investing now definitely this return
does not come without its fair share of
risk and
risk for example take a look at this
blue line and what you will notice is
that there was massive correction that
was happening in micro cap space even
small cap medcap May and how much did
micro cap correct byy so this was
roughly at 10K level and it fell to how
much it fell to 3K level so there was
almost a 70% volatility SL draw down on
micro
cap blue line so I will probably use a
different color so let me highlight
green color so here a here right you can
see that here the Nifty was almost at
what like 7,500 level it fell to how
much like 3 and a 12,000 level right so
so there was a 50% correction on large G
but almost 70 75% correction ction on
micro cap this is not an exception again
if you go and check the data from here
to here again you will see that this was
at 4,000 and yeah
1000 almost 75% correction so to cut the
long story short there are two Central
points number one if you want to make a
kager of let's say 30% plus then you
should consider micro cap investing in
what type of Market in a growth Market
when there is Bull Run happening or you
feel that the Bull Run is going to last
for the next 2 3
years but if you unfortunately are wrong
about the bull run of the entire Market
you will see a massive draw down
correction 70
75% in Cas you haven't pressed the like
button do press the like button so these
type of fundamental videos reach out to
more investors I know that you haven't
done it please do it it would allow and
help these type of videos so anyways
coming to the Point see two things
number one in a growth market for
example right now you're sitting in 2024
and you're thinking you know what Boss
Next 2 3 years are going to be very good
XYZ government is going to win the
elections and stock market
us and right so by next year
2025 one year Bull Run micro caps are
going to give good rally this is logical
there is nothing off about this Theory
but if this Theory fails for some reason
please be prepared that there could be a
draw down this can easily fall if
nifty50 corrects by 15 20% Then expect
like 40 45% correction on micro
cap then please continue to watch the
video otherwise just wind up please drop
off I'm asking you to drop off because
this is dangerous stuff I do not want
you to get into all this I'm simply
teaching this because this is something
that I'm applying to my portfolio right
now now in case you want to learn and
just you know keep a track of it then
please continue to watch it please make
notes so okay so I hope that you
understood the risk and reward of micro
cap investing it is very rewarding but
it comes with its own set of risks now
what is the problem in terms of micro
cap investing dangerous dangerous that
is one part of it but the second key
piece of information is that when big
investors pick micro cap stocks rocket
and by the time you are able to catch it
it has already gone up like four five
times so let me illustrate the case so
Shankar Sharma is one of the investors
who invest a lot of money in these type
of Micro cap companies and I was
watching one of his inter views and he
said that you know what I picked a
company called as vant
Communications right and I will just
quickly show it to you so he picked
stake recently not very long ago and go
and this is where the price of vant
communication is right so it was at 24
rupees right now it is at whatever like
almost 300 rupees by 10 12 times the
stock has become now if you go and buy
it here somewhere right I don't know
whether you'll be making any money on it
or not but yes if you are able to bet on
the stock somewhere here in this range
then the opportunities to benefit from
these type of Investments are massive
right so this is very common sensical
point that I'm saying that when it comes
to normal retail investors like us we
are not able to understand the
information that's it
second hardly anyone makes any videos
right so today the case study that I'm
going to cover in the last section that
is not an IPO video the IPO of that
company has happened a while back so I'm
just doing an industry analysis and
sharing the framework you can apply it
for any micro cap stock that you feel
like investing in now the second key
problem in terms of micro cap investing
is that when we invest via the mutual
fund route individual stocks pick I will
go and give my money to mutual fund
small cap mutual funds and some of my
money will get into micro caps and micro
cap grow so I will get a lot of benefits
good theory but the there are two
additional problems with that number one
that here is the chart and you can take
a look at this you can see that the
investment of small cap funds in micro
cap is very low to begin with for
example DSP small cap and is the
allocation to micro cap is 27% and this
is very high and for example SBI small
cap 10% allocation is there on micro cap
so if you are betting on the theme of
micro caps then by going to small cap
funds it's very difficult for you to get
truly invested in the micro cap segment
right so this is a problem a related
problem here is that when it comes to
micro cap investing example stock right
it has gone like 12 13 14 15 times right
now booking some profit makes a lot of
sense but mutual fund right I mean
booking profits in mutual fund is tough
because you would not be able to track
individual stocks and figure out
overvalued
right small cap overvalued midcap
overvalued this that so selling your
stuff via mutual fund becomes a
challenge so therefore we need to learn
about micro cap investing so let me
illustrate a case as to how you can go
and actually analyze stock in the micro
cap category so okay so you need to
understand four specific points the
first thing is that whether the industry
is growing or not now if the industry
itself is not growing by more than 5 6%
then
micro because if industry itself is not
growing then how will that micro cap
grow second is that it should be very
clear that you pick micro cap company X
then it should have some kind of mo mo
means winning
Advantage it is a low cost producer it
has some kind of brand going for it it
can expand to different products it has
some geography Advantage XYZ country
export it has lot of
relationships then number three that
there should not be any red flags
especially promoter related red flags
right this is very very
important then why was the IPO brought
into the market for this company why
could the company just keep doing
whatever it was doing so all these
points are critical finally this is the
most important part that it should be
aligned with the fit of your portfolio
for example up large cap investor who
then there's no point in you going into
micro cap right similarly if you feel
you know what this is not a bull run
phase markets are extremely overvalued I
don't see growth happening in the next
one 2 years CH though there is no point
in going to micro cap category then you
should only invest in micro caps when
you feel that there is a bull run
happening or we are somewhere in the
middle of Bull Run I do feel that we are
somewhere in the middle of Bull Run and
therefore I'm making this video so hypo
more importantly I spoke about the fact
that 70% draw down can happen in micro
caps not aat I use this framework I pick
like these five stocks all the five
stocks are down by like 30% what can I
do please do not behave it that way
please understand the nature of micro
cap investing and only then invest so
let me illustrate this entire framework
in very simple Language by picking a
live example so let me just quickly go
through it let me tell you how you can
go use Google to analyze all this data
so AK discussion so number one if you
look at HMA Agro this is a micro cap
company why because the market cap is
less than 5,000 CR right and because
unlike most of the micro caps
small you will see that it ipoed at
roughly 59 R right now it is at 7475
R so therefore I picked it as a case
study this is not a recommendation that
you buy sell this that I'm just simply
sharing analysis framework that's it
that's how you need to see this so
anyways coming back to topic what does
HMA Agro industries does well it is into
export of products especially Frozen
fresh buffalo meat and Frozen natural
products like vegetabl cereals in India
so this has to do with Agri export
categorization the company has a license
from FSS or licensing requirement these
are the licenses that these companies
have to take and FSS categorization of
business so this will fall in this
particular domain next
framework part one and that at what rate
is this industry growing and is India
pushing this industry or not right so if
we go and search this data so this is
what you will find that dgci NS report
there was a growth of 13% right so this
is very good healthy growth rate slow
down so that is also healthy growth rate
for an industry now within this segment
how much is India is a meat exporter to
the world so category India exports
about 43 % of world buffalo meat
production so India already push and it
is the number to export for India when
it comes to Agricultural Product and
buffo meat now this is an export
oriented business almost 90% of the
business is from outside India to
countries like Malaysia Vietnam
Cambodia now comes a very natural
question and this is a point where you
need to go and check for red flags which
was I think Point number three SL risks
on our framework now you need to start
asking questions like these Vietnam
Malaysia why not Europe why not us ET so
that's a very interesting point which
you need to again Google and figure
out when it comes to us or Europe the
export standards are very very high they
require high quality stuff A B they
themselves produce a lot of meat right
so they do not really require it but on
the flip side countries like Vietnam
Qatar all these different different
countries where this particular company
is exporting they are not meat producers
they are meat consumers so they actually
need to import from countries like India
now agricultural products for example
mangoes Europe even Singapore now the
hygiene standards are very very high how
you handle food is very very high now
they are very very prone to regulation
now because they are supplying to
countries like Vietnam
Cambodia one could argue that the
hygiene standards are not as high in
these type of countries compared to us
and Europe which are more regulation
prone markets so this is actually a
strength of the company rather than
being a limiting factor so then comes
the second part of the framework
discover that simply means comparative
advantage now in the export world and if
you are from the export industry let me
know in the comment box whether you
agree with this Viewpoint see if
something is being exported out of China
China right it's very simple by because
the production cost in China is very low
so there is price or cost advantage that
Chinese expor does
have so that is actually a good thing so
here if you go and Google and again read
from their company reports you will find
a very interesting data point which I
was able to find so basically management
the price of meat that we export we are
able to do it at a range of $2.8 to $3
but our competitors who are producing
meat they are able to export that same
very product at roughly between $5 to $6
so there is cost or competitive
advantage that the company has on its
core product so I'm again stressing on
the word core product at least Advantage
now for a micro cap company growth is a
key level or key
factor right now they are exporting a
lot of material when it comes to Buffalo
frozen meat but can they go into other
segments so they are precisely doing
that and if you check here is the new
business category that company has
recently Diversified its product
portfolio by adding frozen fish product
Basmati poultry and other agre products
right so expand definitely C and this is
something that you can go and check on
the fixed assets of the balance
sheet
fixs so it is highest ever so these
fixed assets are going to bring more
revenues in
time for example in 2019 the total
capacity or total fixed asset 84 now it
is how much it is almost three times so
yeah three times revenues three times
profit and if economies of scale then
the profits might be much higher now of
course these are all good points so now
next you go and check on promoters that
what has been their background so up
research then you will be able to figure
out some more details about the
promoters basically you just need to
study the background management
commentary you will realize that this is
fourth generation business
and then they get insights so that is
definitely a positive point for
theany of course you can go and study
more research reports Etc now you need
to study all these reports with a
negative lens right negative lens you
are definitely studying all this to find
red flags within the company the first
was the production
facility
fac right then I read that okay what is
the company doing so they have actually
installed more Tech based Solutions then
you have to check certifications
certifications facili they are approved
by all these different countries so I
mean this is a point but this can become
a pain point in the future regular
compan so this is a weak point about the
bus and hopefully they will be able to
do
it is Indian government trying to
promote this industry or not so
government when it comes to export of
meat products from India they are
actually supporting it and they are
earmarking a lot of money for this
activity the second key red flag on the
business is dependence excessively on
one country so if you go and look at the
location wise breakup of export you will
see that dependence on Vietnam is close
to
33% that what has been the hygiene
standards or what has been the import
standards in Vietnam so Vietnam meat
consumption is very very
high major strong Supply chains so they
have to import but till what time is
this game going to continue so these are
small small points that you need to
check because if Vietnam is developing
its own capacity
or then it becomes an issue but India
has very good relations with Vietnam and
this is one of the industries in which
India and Vietnam have good Corporation
so at least short term this is going to
fall off but whenever you are investing
in export oriented products please be
cognizant of the fact that how
Diversified it is final point is company
grow are there any red flags around that
just for example will they be able to
crack more developed markets in the
future will they be able to supply for
example fish in countries like Vietnam
Hong Kong already they have suppliers
Distributors so can that be done
soat by reading all the literature on
the company so I'm not issuing a
recommendation whether you should buy it
whether you should not buy it I'm just
simply sharing the framework so in
summary here are the few key things that
I will outline that number one micro cap
investing is very very rewarding no
doubt about that number two there is
very less information on micro cap
investing clear information
you will have to go by certain gut
assumptions number three if you use the
fourpoint framework that I have taught
you in this particular video then you
will be able to avoid major mistakes
that anyone could make in micro cap
investing number four in order to truly
benefit from micro cap investing you
will have to take some direct exposure
to micro
caps whenever massive growth happens in
it and it's always a good time to book
little bit of profit just 4X 5x stock
then you should definitely book some
profits on that particular stock finally
in terms of micro cap investing one
point that I have not covered was
regarding the shareholding pattern of
promoters and the cleanliness of the
promoter and you can also check how F
and diis are behaving in that stock for
example
H for example promoters have very high
promoter holding so
83.1% as per rules
so are F buying this stock yes they have
presence in this stock
already but for example
835 and or F pick that holding then that
will be a very strong point for these
type of stocks right and
finally risk is very 15 15
20 you know there are such very good
chance that it might correct stock
I hope that you enjoyed watching this
video on tomorrow's YouTube member
Community I'm going to speak about a
couple of micro caps and I will give you
more detailed summary regarding the same
thank you so much for watching and I'll
see you soon