all right people if you're someone who
dreams of working in the silicon valley
or driving down hollywood or living the
hustle life of california or basically
just like me someone who likes to play
gta this video is for you we are going
to break down everything you need to
know for the ucs or the university of
california all of them the admission
process and what kind of scholarships
they provide to undergrad and graduate
international students
[Music]
so right off the bat depending on what
type of research each of the university
of california provides they are divided
into 10 different colleges and obviously
you know they're spread out in the state
of california itself so ucs are super
popular and if you kind of look at the
stats for the last few years you can see
that they roughly admitted anywhere
between 17 to 19 000 international
students and i think that's a pretty
good diverse ratio considering that
there are so many students that apply to
all of the ucs domestic and
international so let's talk about some
interesting facts because you know i
love telling you guys these really cool
things that i find when i
do my research for these videos um in
terms of like the biggest uc that
enrolls the most number of students it's
ucla and ucla enrolled 31 000
undergraduate students last year and in
terms of the smallest uc which is also
the newest of like the gang um it's uc
merced that enrolled just 7000 undergrad
students and just like a fun fact for
you guys when i was applying for my
master's
there were some programs that i applied
for a phd because at that time it was
relatively new that you know you could
skip masters and from your bachelor's
you could directly go to a phd i
actually got accepted by uc merced they
gave me a full ride and a pretty good
stipend but i ended up turning down
their offer to go to cornell instead so
i know that it gets a little confusing
because collectively all of them are
known as the uc's but they are actually
individual colleges so they have one
portal which is the university of
california application portal that you
use to apply to all of the uc's but you
have to select each individual college
that you want to apply to now out of all
of them they're not equal in terms of
like acceptance rate and other like
merit based criteria and just for
example the two most competitive ucs are
ucla that has an 8.6 acceptance rate and
uc berkeley that has an 11.4 acceptance
rate with both of these acceptance rates
the ucs also mentioned things like
minimum gpa requirements and just rough
numbers so that a student who's applying
can get
an idea of somewhat of like what the
profile should look like and how he or
she would compare to other students that
are also applying now the fee structure
is a little complicated because when you
open the website to look at the cost of
attendance they have it segregated into
three parts in-state out-of-state and
then international and just so it's
clear any student that's coming as an
international student the international
fee will apply to you for all four years
and roughly your tuition fee will be
around like forty six thousand dollars
seven thousand dollars in books supplies
and insurance and roughly seventeen to
twenty thousand dollars in living
expenses for my master's and phd
students you can expect a tuition fee of
upwards of 28 000
and this can vary from department to
department so you'll need to go into the
specific area of interest that you're
looking for and see what the fee
structure is over there so listening to
these numbers you guys must be thinking
that the ucs must be providing some sort
of aid right like right
um but unfortunately i have some pretty
bad news for you guys uh i looked a lot
and when i say a lot i really dig down
into those like sub pages on literally
all of the nine or ten ucs that are
available and what i ultimately found
was that there is minimal scholarships
given to international students directly
from the college itself and the little
bit of scholarship that they do provide
is in the form of merit-based
scholarship but apart from that there is
no need based scholarship for
international students so css profile
nope and what they actually suggest
international students do is actually
find external sources of funding and
i'll put some examples of those on the
screen right now before you close this
video because i said there are no
scholarships there is a trade-off and a
big reason why students come to study
the university of california it's in the
silicon valley and there are so many job
opportunities surrounded by companies
like google amazon meta and others but
basically it provides a good environment
for you to do co-ops and potential
internships and ultimately even find a
really high paying job the data suggests
that on average after you graduate you
can expect to earn anywhere between 100
to 150 000 as a bachelor student and
that is good enough to cope up and even
repay any loans that you potentially
have as a master's student you can
expect to earn anywhere between 150 to
200 000
and i also saw some salaries that ranged
upwards of 200 000
now because california in general is
known as the silicon valley there's so
many startups as well as well
established companies there is a wide
variety of opportunities and that's what
makes the uc's the prime spot for
students to come and complete their
education now unlike most colleges in
the us applying to the ucs can be a
little confusing because they have their
own separate application they don't use
common app or coalition they have a uc
portal where you can apply to all of the
nine ucs and the reason why you have to
apply to all of the colleges separately
is because you need to first understand
which colleges offer the major that you
want and then select that and add it
into the portal now the portal is very
interactive and honestly it was fun to
kind of like scroll around the uc map to
see how all of the nine ucs are spread
out the ucs have pretty strict minimum
academic requirements and what i mean by
this is on their website they clearly
state that in your high school you have
to complete a certain set of subjects
before you can even qualify to apply now
these subjects basically include things
like history language science um some
sort of like math one math two
and if you kind of like select your
country you can scroll down and look at
the minimum marks that you would require
in your 12th board exam to satisfy their
minimum criteria now if you scroll down
to india for example you can see that
you need to have a minimum of 70 percent
and no subject score should be less than
60
so it's not like that high of a
requirement but they do have these
specific guidelines so let's take a look
at all the documents and things that
they require for your undergrad
application the first thing on the list
is transcripts now i know that in common
app everyone is used to submitting 9 to
12 but ucs go a step further and they
ask you to submit your marks all the way
from grade 7 to 12. like that is
exaggerating a bit but i guess they want
to have like a thorough academic history
of the student um so yeah be prepared to
have like report cards and mark sheets
of like all of those grades now you
don't have to send in these transcripts
just yet all of these are self-reported
which means that on the portal you just
have to fill out the grades that you got
and
the sending the transcript part only
comes into the picture if you're
admitted number two on the list are test
scores now the ucs make it very clear
that if you give the sat or act they
will not consider it in their decision
to admit you so if you have a good score
you can definitely submit it but it's
not going to affect your application in
any way in my opinion i feel like that
is a good thing it allows the college to
look at your overall profile rather than
just one competitive exam score so it
gives you know all the students like
better chances of being able to express
themselves number three on the list is
the annual income now this is an
optional section where you can add your
parents income but remember that for
international students the uc's don't
provide need-based financial aid so just
in my opinion i feel like this is really
not necessary for international students
especially because
the ucs are need aware universities when
it comes to international students so
because adding those financial details
isn't going to get you any aid it's prob
you're probably better off just avoiding
that section altogether number four on
our list is activities and honestly this
was my favorite section when i was going
through all of uh the bullet points here
because the uc's allow you to add up to
20 activities and you can choose from
like different categories that they have
there is honors there's extracurricular
activities awards educational
experiences coursework volunteering and
even work experience and unlike common
app that just gives you like 150
characters which is one sentence to
explain an entire activity the uc's
actually provide 350 characters which
sum up to like a couple sentences to
explain what you did and i'm going to
give you guys a little tip on how you
should best use this space now let's say
i'm a high school student and i was the
captain of the school basketball team
now one way i could write this is i
could name the activity as sports
captain and i could write that i created
team tactics and played inter-school
matches now there's nothing wrong with
this you know i could definitely write
more but i'm providing all the
information that they've asked for
now another way i could write this is i
could name the activity sports captain
hyphen women's basketball team at
bethany high which provides more
information right in the title of what i
was the sport that i did and the school
and then just and in the description i
can write something like organized and
ran bi-weekly team meetings for strategy
set up
team training sessions with the coach
brainstormed and created group
activities to improve teamwork and
updated team members through monthly
newsletters participated and won five
inter-school basketball tournaments
now when you actually like compare both
of these side by side it's the exact
same activity and there's no right or
wrong between both of them they're both
perfectly fine but it's about how
precisely you're able to express what
you did what your roles and
responsibilities were
how you contributed and if there were
any challenges or new things you brought
to the table so the more information you
can provide in this section the better
off you'll be now you guys didn't think
that the list was over right i mean we
haven't tackled the biggest part essays
but wait the uc's don't call them essays
they're called personal insight
questions
don't ask me why but basically on the
portal itself they give you the option
of eight personal insight questions and
you have to pick and answer any four of
them now the word limit for these
questions is anywhere between 250 to 350
words so about like half a page worth of
answer which is not bad at all so you're
not writing like pages worth of essays
but these are like really creative
questions for example they they may ask
you about leadership
some place where you were creative a
challenge that you were able to solve or
an ability or talent that you like to
showcase now these are just examples but
all eight questions that you guys see
you have to pick any for and write about
that and if you guys need like final
touches from ivy league pros um someone
who's actually done gone through the
process you guys can check out the essay
reviews at incognito blueprints.com now
the next section that i want to talk
about is the additional information
section and it's a pretty small section
um it's not too relevant and it's
optional but the reason i bring it up is
a lot of students you know asked me that
they didn't do so well in grade eight or
they had a personal issue because of
which they didn't do great in a subject
or in grade nine they failed and how
would this impact their overall
application now this additional
information section is a chance for you
to explain these type of situations so
you can actually tell the admissions
committee if you had a setback or a
failure or something going on in your
personal life you can give reasoning
behind that and then show the positive
that you did you know come out of it and
you were able to improve after that so
this is your space to tell them anything
that you need to
that you haven't already the last part
are the letters of recommendation and i
have great news for you guys ucs don't
require any lors um after they give you
the admission they may ask for a
reference which is also a maybe when
you're submitting your application you
don't need to submit any letters of
recommendation the applications for fall
2023 have already opened so you guys can
create your uc portal online for free
and you could submit your applications
anytime from october 1st to november
30th so until now we've covered
everything you need to know if you're
applying as an undergrad student to the
ucs so coming to my graduate students
masters and phds
you guys won't be applying through the
common uc portal each one of the uc
universities has its own individual
portal that you can apply to so my step
one would be to browse through you know
all nine or ten universities and see
which one actually has the research lab
or the area that you're interested in
pursuing your graduate education and
then you can go to their portal and
apply now in terms of the requirements
they'll pretty much stay the same as the
undergrad requirements and in addition
to that since you guys are applying for
a grad degree you also need to submit
your undergrad transcripts so coming to
the aid for graduate students now i want
to kind of divide this into two parts
there's a couple programs that don't
have any aid for example the masters of
engineering programs but the advantage
to these programs is that it's a
one-year course it's basically the same
program that i did at cornell they don't
offer any outright aid when you enroll
but since you're able to finish the
program in one year you can immediately
start working in an industry of your
area immediately after that so you're
eligible to get your opt and stem work
authorization and you know it's a really
fast degree but on the other hand
research based masters or phds have
stipends uh they may you know have you
work as a ta or ra to earn your monthly
like amount and cover up your tuition
fee so that's pretty common among all
u.s colleges and uc is included all
right guys so that's all that i had for
this video and if you guys are watching
till this point like a big thank you i
know that this video got a little long
but there was just so much information i
wanted to like get put out there the
process is a little different for the
ucs um but i hope that you know this
video made it easier for you guys to
understand uh the road to success series
has been going great if we can get this
video to 500 likes i would like
literally love you guys um but today's
question that i have for you guys is
what sport do you like to watch on tv
and who is your goat mine is hold on
wait
i'm going to show you
steph curry so this is the only jersey
of any player that i have and i got this
in like 2015
um i think i got it in boston actually
i've seen him play once live um it was
uh the cleveland versus golden state
warriors game in cleveland but i it's
kind of like my all-time dream to watch
him play um in his home court i feel
like that vibe in general would be just
something that i'd like to experience at
least once so let me know yours in the
comments below um like the video
subscribe if you haven't already and i
will see you guys tomorrow bye
[Music]
[Music]